# generated-date: 2026-11-29

From the Reign of Christ to Christmas Eve

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Restore us, O Creator of the stars of night;
Show us the light of your countenance,
And we shall be saved.
Will you not give us life again,
So that your people may rejoice in you?
Show us your mercy, O God,
And grant us your salvation.
Blessed is the Christ who comes in your name!
Peace in heaven and glory in the highest.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Reveal among us the light of your presence
So that we may behold your power and glory.
Blessed are you, Sovereign God of all,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
In your tender compassion
the dawn from on high is breaking upon us
to dispel the lingering shadows of night.
As we look for your coming among us this day,
open our eyes to behold your presence
and strengthen our hands to do your will,
so that the world may rejoice and give you praise.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 146 — Lauda, anima mea

Hallelujah! *
Praise the Lord, O my soul!
I will praise the Lord as long as I live;
I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
Put not your trust in rulers, nor in any child of earth, *
for there is no help in them.
When they breathe their last, they return to earth, *
and in that day their thoughts perish.
Happy are they who have the God of Jacob for their help! *
For their hope is in the Lord their God,
who made heaven and earth, the seas,
and all that is in them; *
who keeps promises for ever;
who gives justice to those who are oppressed, *
food to those who hunger
and sets the prisoners free.
The Lord opens the eyes of the blind! *
The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down
and loves the righteous.
The Lord cares for the stranger *
and sustains the orphan and widow,
but frustrates the way of the wicked.
The Lord shall reign for ever, *
your God, O Zion, throughout all generations.
Hallelujah!

Psalm 147 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!
How good it is to sing praises to our God! *
How pleasant it is to honour God with praise!
The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem *
and gathers the exiles of Israel.
The Lord heals the brokenhearted *
and binds up their wounds.
The Lord counts the number of stars *
and calls them all by their names.
Great is our Lord and mighty in power; *
there is no limit to the wisdom of God.
The Lord lifts up the lowly, *
but casts the wicked to the ground.
Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; *
make music to our God upon the harp.
The Lord covers the heavens with clouds *
and prepares rain for the earth,
making grass to grow upon the mountains *
and green plants to serve humankind.
The Lord provides food for flocks and herds *
and for the young ravens when they cry.
The Lord is not impressed by the might of a horse *
and has no pleasure in human strength,
but finds pleasure in those who fear God, *
in those who await the gracious favour of the Lord.
Worship the Lord, O Jerusalem; *
praise your God, O Zion,
who has strengthened the bars of your gates, *
who has blessed your children within you.
For the Lord has established peace on your borders *
and satisfies you with the finest wheat.
The Lord sends out a command to the earth, *
and this word runs very swiftly.
The Lord gives snow like wool *
and scatters hoarfrost like ashes
and hail like bread-crumbs; *
who can stand against such cold?
The Lord sends forth the word and melts them, *
blowing with the wind and the waters flow.
The Lord declares the word to Jacob, *
statutes and judgements to Israel.
The Lord has not done so to any other nation; *
to them these judgements have not been revealed.
Hallelujah!

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Isaiah 1:1-9]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Now it is time to awake out of sleep,
For the night is far spent and the day is at hand.
Now is our salvation nearer than when we first believed,
For the night is far spent.
Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness
and put on the armour of light,
For the day is at hand.
Put on the Lord Jesus Christ
and make no provision for the flesh,
For the night is far spent and the day is at hand.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 2 Peter 3:1-10]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of the Wilderness,” or “A Song of Baruch” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of the Wilderness — Isaiah 35:1, 2b–4a, 4c–6, 10

The wilderness and the dry land shall rejoice, *
the desert shall blossom and burst into song.
They shall see the glory of the Lord, *
the majesty of our God.
Strengthen the weary hands, *
and make firm the feeble knees.
Say to the anxious, “Be strong, fear not,
your God is coming with judgement, *
coming with judgement to save you.”
Then shall the eyes of the blind be opened, *
and the ears of the deaf unstopped;
then shall the lame leap like a hart, *
and the tongue of the mute sing for joy.
For waters shall break forth in the wilderness, *
and streams in the desert;
the ransomed of the Lord shall return with singing, *
with everlasting joy upon their heads.
Joy and gladness shall be theirs, *
and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.

or

A Song of Baruch — Baruch 5:5, 6c, 7–9

Arise, O Jerusalem, stand upon the height: *
look to the east and see your children,
gathered from the west and the east *
at the word of the Holy One.
They rejoice that God has remembered them *
and has brought them back to you.
For God has ordered that every high mountain *
and the everlasting hills be made low,
and the valleys filled up to make level ground *
so that they may walk safely in the glory of God.
The woods and every fragrant tree *
have shaded them at God’s command.
For God will lead this people with joy
in the light of the divine glory *
with the mercy and righteousness that comes from God.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

In joyful expectation let us pray to God, our Saviour and Redeemer.
O Wisdom from the mouth of the Most High,
you reign over all things to the ends of the earth:
come and teach us how to live.
Lord Jesus, come soon.
O Head of the house of Israel,
you appeared in the fire of the burning bush
and you gave the law on Sinai:
come with outstretched arm and ransom us.
Lord Jesus, come soon.
O Branch of Jesse standing as a sign among the nations,
all rulers will keep silence before you
and all peoples will summon you to their aid:
come, set us free and delay no more.
Lord Jesus, come soon.
O Key of David and sceptre of the house of Israel,
you open and none can shut;
you shut and none can open:
come and free the captives from prison.
Lord Jesus, come soon.
O Morning Star, bright Sun of righteousness:
come and enlighten all who dwell in darkness
and the shadow of death.
Lord Jesus, come soon.
O Emmanuel, hope of the nations:
come and save us, O Anointed One.
Lord Jesus, come soon.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-11-29]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Most High God, majestic and almighty, our beginning and our end: rule in our hearts and guide us to be faithful in our daily actions, worshipping the one who comes as Saviour and Sovereign, and who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God.
Amen.

(Advent 1)

God of justice and peace, from the heavens you rain down mercy and kindness, so that all on earth may stand in awe and wonder before your marvellous deeds. Raise our heads in expectation, so that we may yearn for the coming of your Christ and stand without blame before him, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit for ever and ever. Amen.

(Advent 2)

God of timeless grace, you fill us with joyful expectation. Make us ready for the message that prepares the way, so that with uprightness of heart and holy joy we may eagerly await the coming of your Christ, who reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, now and for ever.
Amen.

(Advent 3)

Merciful God, your word, spoken by the prophets, restores your people’s life and hope. Fill our hearts with the joy of your saving grace, so that we may hold fast to your great goodness and in our lives proclaim your justice in all the world, through your Christ who comes among us. Amen.

(Advent 4)

O God of Elizabeth and Mary, you visited your servants with news of the world’s redemption in the coming of the Saviour. Make our hearts leap with joy and fill our mouths with songs of praise, so that we may announce glad tidings of peace and welcome the Christ in our midst. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Awaiting his coming in glory
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, when he comes, find us watching and waiting. Amen.
