# generated-date: 2026-11-29

From the Reign of Christ to Christmas Eve

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
Creator of light and darkness,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
As evening falls, you renew your promise
to reveal among us the light of your presence.
May your word be a lantern to our feet
and a light upon our path
so that we may behold your coming among us.
Strengthen us in our stumbling weakness
and free our tongues to sing your praise.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 111 — Confitebor tibi

Hallelujah!
I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, *
in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation.
Great are the deeds of the Lord! *
They are studied by all who delight in them.
O Lord, your work is full of majesty and splendour, *
and your righteousness endures for ever.
You make your marvellous works to be remembered; *
you are gracious and full of compassion.
You give food to those who fear you; *
you are ever mindful of your covenant.
You have shown your people the power of your works *
in giving them the lands of the nations.
The works of your hands are faithfulness and justice; *
all your commandments are sure.
They stand fast for ever and ever, *
because they are done in truth and equity.
You send redemption to your people;
you commanded your covenant for ever; *
holy and awesome is your name.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; *
those who act accordingly have a good understanding;
the praise of the Lord endures for ever.

Psalm 112 — Beatus vir

Hallelujah!
Happy are they who fear the Lord *
and have great delight in the divine commandments!
Their descendants will be mighty in the land; *
the generation of the upright will be blessed.
Wealth and riches will be in their house, *
and their righteousness will last for ever.
Light shines in the darkness for the upright; *
the righteous are merciful and full of compassion.
It is good for them to be generous in lending *
and to manage their affairs with justice.
For they will never be shaken; *
the righteous will be kept in everlasting remembrance.
They will not be afraid of any evil rumours; *
their heart is right; they put their trust in the Lord.
Their heart is established and will not shrink, *
until they see their desire upon their enemies.
They have given freely to the poor, *
and their righteousness stands fast for ever;
they will hold up their head with honour.
The wicked will see it and be angry;
they will gnash their teeth and pine away; *
the desires of the wicked will perish.

Psalm 113 — Laudate, pueri

Hallelujah!
Give praise, you servants of the Lord; *
praise the name of the Lord.
Let the name of the Lord be blessed, *
from this time forth for evermore.
From the rising of the sun to its going down *
let the name of the Lord be praised.
The Lord is high above all nations, *
and is glorious above the heavens.
Who is like the Lord our God, *
who sits enthroned on high,
but stoops to behold *
the heavens and the earth?
The Lord takes up the weak out of the dust *
and lifts up the poor from the ashes.
The Lord sets them with the rulers, *
with the rulers of this people,
making the woman of a childless house *
to be a joyful mother of children.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Amos 1:1-5, 13—2:8]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

My soul is waiting for you, Light of my salvation:
in your word is my hope.
My soul is waiting for you, Light of my salvation:
In your word is my hope.
There is forgiveness with you,
so that you shall be held in awe.
My soul is waiting for you, Light of my salvation:
In your word is my hope.
Reveal among us the light of your presence,
so that we may behold your power and glory.
My soul is waiting for you, Light of my salvation:
In your word is my hope.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 25:1-13]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of the Spirit,” or “A Song of the Lamb” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of the Spirit — Revelation 22:12–14, 16, 17

“Behold, I am coming soon,” says the Lord,
“and bringing my reward with me, *
to give everyone according to their deeds.
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, *
the beginning and the end.”
Blessed are those who do God’s commandments,
that they may have the right to the tree of life, *
and may enter into the city through the gates.
“I, Jesus, have sent my angel to you, *
with this testimony for all the churches.
I am the root and the offspring of David, *
I am the bright morning star.”
“Come!” say the Spirit and the Bride; *
“Come!” let each hearer reply.
Come forward, you who are thirsty, *
let those who desire take the water of life as a gift.

or

A Song of the Lamb — Revelation 19:1b, 2a, 5b, 6b, 7, 9b

Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, *
whose judgements are true and just.
Praise our God, all you servants of the Lord, *
all who fear God, both small and great.
The Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns: *
let us rejoice and exult and give God the glory.
For the marriage of the Lamb has come *
and his bride has made herself ready.
Blessed are those who are invited *
to the wedding banquet of the Lamb.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Watchful at all times, let us pray to God for strength to stand with
confidence.
God, our Maker and Redeemer, fill the earth with justice and
compassion.
God of Mary and Joseph, hear and have mercy.
Establish righteousness in the nations.
God of Mary and Joseph, hear and have mercy.
Bind up the broken-hearted, restore the sick, and raise up all who
have fallen.
God of Mary and Joseph, hear and have mercy.
Shine the light of Christ on all who live in darkness and the shadow
of death.
God of Mary and Joseph, hear and have mercy.
Empower us, with all the saints in light, to be your witnesses in the
world.
God of Mary and Joseph, hear and have mercy.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-11-29]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Most High God, majestic and almighty, our beginning and our end: rule in our hearts and guide us to be faithful in our daily actions, worshipping the one who comes as Saviour and Sovereign, and who lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God.
Amen.

(Advent 1)

God of justice and peace, from the heavens you rain down mercy and kindness, so that all on earth may stand in awe and wonder before your marvellous deeds. Raise our heads in expectation, so that we may yearn for the coming of your Christ and stand without blame before him, who lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit for ever and ever. Amen.

(Advent 2)

God of timeless grace, you fill us with joyful expectation. Make us ready for the message that prepares the way, so that with uprightness of heart and holy joy we may eagerly await the coming of your Christ, who reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, now and for ever.
Amen.

(Advent 3)

Merciful God, your word, spoken by the prophets, restores your people’s life and hope. Fill our hearts with the joy of your saving grace, so that we may hold fast to your great goodness and in our lives proclaim your justice in all the world, through your Christ who comes among us. Amen.

(Advent 4)

O God of Elizabeth and Mary, you visited your servants with news of the world’s redemption in the coming of the Saviour. Make our hearts leap with joy and fill our mouths with songs of praise, so that we may announce glad tidings of peace and welcome the Christ in our midst. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Awaiting his coming in glory
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, when he comes, find us watching and waiting. Amen.
