# generated-date: 2026-11-01

From All Saints until the

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
our light and our salvation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
Now, as darkness is falling,
wash away our transgressions,
cleanse us by your refining fire
and make us temples of your Holy Spirit.
By the light of Christ,
dispel the darkness of our hearts
and make us ready to enter your reign of justice and peace,
where songs of praise forever sound.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 148 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!
Praise the Lord from the heavens; *
praise God in the heights.
Praise the Lord all you angels; *
sing praises, all you heavenly host.
Praise the Lord, sun and moon; *
sing praises, all you shining stars.
Praise the Lord, heaven of heavens, *
sing praises, you waters above the heavens.
Let them praise the name of the Lord; *
who gave the command and they were created,
who made them stand fast for ever and ever, *
who gave them a law which shall not pass away.
Praise the Lord from the earth, *
you sea-monsters and all deeps;
fire and hail, snow and fog, *
tempestuous wind, doing God's will;
mountains and all hills, *
fruit trees and all cedars;
wild beasts and all cattle, *
creeping things and wingèd birds;
sovereigns of the earth and all peoples, *
princes and all rulers of the world;
young men and young women, *
old and young together.
Let them praise the name of the Lord, *
whose name only is exalted,
whose splendour is over earth and heaven.
The Lord has raised up strength for this people *
and praise for all loyal servants,
the children of Israel, *
a people who are near to the Lord.
Hallelujah!

Psalm 150 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!  Praise the Lord in the holy temple; *
praise God in the firmament of divine power.
Praise the Lord for mighty acts; *
praise God for excellent greatness.
Praise the Lord with the blast of the ram's-horn; *
praise God with lyre and harp.
Praise the Lord with timbrel and dance; *
praise God with strings and pipe.
Praise the Lord with resounding cymbals; *
praise God with loud-clanging cymbals.
Let everything that has breath *
praise the Lord.
Hallelujah!

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Wisdom Of Solomon 5:1-5, 14-16]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
the just shall see your face.
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
The just shall see your face.
When the foundations are being destroyed,
what can the righteous do?
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds.
Your eyes behold the inhabited world;
your piercing eye weighs our worth.
The just shall see your face.
You weigh the righteous as well as the wicked,
but those who delight in violence, you abhor.
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
The just shall see your face.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Revelation 21:1-4, 22—22:5]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of the Blessed,” or “A Song of God’s Assembled” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of the Blessed — Matthew 5:3–12

Blessed are the poor in spirit, *
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are those who mourn, *
for they will be comforted.
Blessed are the meek, *
for they will inherit the earth.
Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, *
for they will be filled.
Blessed are the merciful, *
for they will receive mercy.
Blessed are the pure in heart, *
for they will see God.
Blessed are the peacemakers, *
for they will be called children of God.
Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness’ sake, *
for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.
Blessed are you when people revile you and persecute you *
and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account.
Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven, *
for in the same way they persecuted the prophets
who were before you.

or

A Song of God’s Assembled — Hebrews 12:22–24a, 28, 29

We have come before God’s holy mountain, *
to the heavenly Jerusalem, the city of the living God.
We have come before countless angels making festival, *
before the assembly of the firstborn citizens of heaven.
We have come before God, who is judge of all, *
before the spirits of the just made perfect.
We have come before Jesus, *
the mediator of the new covenant.
We are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken: *
so let us give thanks and offer God acceptable worship,
full of reverence and awe; *
for our God is a consuming fire.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray to the God of all the faithful.
With the noble fellowship of the prophets
may we discern the signs of your reign in our midst:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.
With the glorious company of the apostles
may we proclaim your gospel throughout the world:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.
With the white-robed army of martyrs
may we be ready to suffer for the truth’s sake:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.
With all who are anointed by your Spirit
may we bring good news to the poor and freedom to the oppressed:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.
With the saints in light
may we bind up the broken-hearted and comfort all who mourn:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.
With the whole company of Christ’s pilgrim people
may we come to the inheritance of the saints in glory:
God of all the faithful, remember your promise of mercy.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-11-01]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of unfailing light, in your realm of glory the poor are blessed, the hungry filled, and every tear is wiped away. Strengthened by this vision, may we follow in the way of holiness that your Son made known in life and death. Amen.

(Week of the Sunday between 6 and 12 November inclusive)

Ever-living God, you inscribe our names in your book of life, so that we may share in the first fruits of salvation. Grant that we may acknowledge Christ as our redeemer and, trusting in him, be confident that none of your own will be lost or forgotten. We ask this in the name of Jesus the Lord. Amen.

(Week of the Sunday between 13 and 19 November inclusive)

O God, in Christ you give us hope for a new heaven and a new earth. Grant us wisdom to interpret the signs of our times, courage to stand in the time of trial, and faith to witness to your truth and love. Amen.

(The Reign of Christ to the First Sunday of Advent)

Holy God, our refuge and strength, you have redeemed your scattered children, gathering them from all the corners of the earth through your firstborn, the Christ, in whom all things are held together. Make of us a just and righteous people, worthy by grace to inherit with him the kingdom of light and peace where he reigns with you and the Holy Spirit. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Uniting with the whole company of heaven
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who has opened to us the gates of heaven, bring us to
reign with him in glory. Amen.
