# generated-date: 2026-11-01

From All Saints until the

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Great are you, O Lord, and greatly to be praised.
There is no end of your greatness.
One generation shall praise your works to another
and shall declare your power.
All your works praise you,
and your faithful servants bless you.
They make known the glory of your reign of justice and peace
and speak of your power.
Our mouths shall speak your praise;
Let all flesh praise your holy name for ever and ever.

or

O Lord, open our lips
and our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Your faithful servants bless you.
They make known the glory of your kingdom.
Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
ruler and judge of all,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
In the darkness of this age that is passing away
may the light of your presence which the saints enjoy
surround our steps as we journey on.
May we reflect your glory this day
and so be made ready to see your face
in the heavenly city where night shall be no more.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 111 — Confitebor tibi

Hallelujah!
I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, *
in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation.
Great are the deeds of the Lord! *
They are studied by all who delight in them.
O Lord, your work is full of majesty and splendour, *
and your righteousness endures for ever.
You make your marvellous works to be remembered; *
you are gracious and full of compassion.
You give food to those who fear you; *
you are ever mindful of your covenant.
You have shown your people the power of your works *
in giving them the lands of the nations.
The works of your hands are faithfulness and justice; *
all your commandments are sure.
They stand fast for ever and ever, *
because they are done in truth and equity.
You send redemption to your people;
you commanded your covenant for ever; *
holy and awesome is your name.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; *
those who act accordingly have a good understanding;
the praise of the Lord endures for ever.

Psalm 112 — Beatus vir

Hallelujah!
Happy are they who fear the Lord *
and have great delight in the divine commandments!
Their descendants will be mighty in the land; *
the generation of the upright will be blessed.
Wealth and riches will be in their house, *
and their righteousness will last for ever.
Light shines in the darkness for the upright; *
the righteous are merciful and full of compassion.
It is good for them to be generous in lending *
and to manage their affairs with justice.
For they will never be shaken; *
the righteous will be kept in everlasting remembrance.
They will not be afraid of any evil rumours; *
their heart is right; they put their trust in the Lord.
Their heart is established and will not shrink, *
until they see their desire upon their enemies.
They have given freely to the poor, *
and their righteousness stands fast for ever;
they will hold up their head with honour.
The wicked will see it and be angry;
they will gnash their teeth and pine away; *
the desires of the wicked will perish.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 2 Esdras 2:42-47]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
the just shall see your face.
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
The just shall see your face.
When the foundations are being destroyed,
what can the righteous do?
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds.
Your eyes behold the inhabited world;
your piercing eye weighs our worth.
The just shall see your face.
You weigh the righteous as well as the wicked,
but those who delight in violence, you abhor.
You are righteous, O Lord, and delight in righteous deeds;
The just shall see your face.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Hebrews 11:32—12:2]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of the New Creation,” or “A Song of Wisdom” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of the New Creation — Isaiah 43:15, 16, 18, 19, 20c, 21

“I am the Lord, your Holy One, *
the Creator of Israel, your Sovereign.”
Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, *
a path in the mighty waters.
“Remember not the former things, *
nor consider the things of old.
Behold, I am doing a new thing; *
now it springs forth, do you not perceive it?
I will make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert, *
to give drink to my chosen people,
the people whom I formed for myself, *
that they might declare my praise.”

or

A Song of Wisdom — Wisdom 9:1–4, 9–11

O God of our ancestors and Lord of mercy, *
you have made all things by your word.
By your wisdom you have formed us, *
to have dominion over the creatures you have made;
to rule the world in holiness and righteousness *
and to pronounce judgement in uprightness of soul.
Give us the Wisdom that sits by your throne; *
do not reject us from among your servants,
With you is Wisdom, she who knows your works, *
and was present when you made the world.
She understands what is pleasing in your sight *
and what is right according to your commandments.
Send her forth from the holy heavens *
from the throne of your glory send her,
so that she may labour at our side *
and so that we may learn what is pleasing to you.
For she knows and understands all things, *
she will guide us wisely in our actions
and guard us with her glory.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us give thanks to the God of all the faithful.
For the beauty and wonder of creation:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For all that is gracious in the lives of men and women,
revealing the image of Christ:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For our daily food, for our friends and families:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For minds to think and hearts to love:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For health, strength, and skill to work,
and for leisure to rest and play:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For those who are brave and courageous,
patient in suffering and faithful in adversity:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For all who pursue peace, justice, and truth:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.
For [. . . and ] all the saints whose lives have reflected the light of Christ:
God of all the faithful, we thank you.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-11-01]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of unfailing light, in your realm of glory the poor are blessed, the hungry filled, and every tear is wiped away. Strengthened by this vision, may we follow in the way of holiness that your Son made known in life and death. Amen.

(Week of the Sunday between 6 and 12 November inclusive)

Ever-living God, you inscribe our names in your book of life, so that we may share in the first fruits of salvation. Grant that we may acknowledge Christ as our redeemer and, trusting in him, be confident that none of your own will be lost or forgotten. We ask this in the name of Jesus the Lord. Amen.

(Week of the Sunday between 13 and 19 November inclusive)

O God, in Christ you give us hope for a new heaven and a new earth. Grant us wisdom to interpret the signs of our times, courage to stand in the time of trial, and faith to witness to your truth and love. Amen.

(The Reign of Christ to the First Sunday of Advent)

Holy God, our refuge and strength, you have redeemed your scattered children, gathering them from all the corners of the earth through your firstborn, the Christ, in whom all things are held together. Make of us a just and righteous people, worthy by grace to inherit with him the kingdom of light and peace where he reigns with you and the Holy Spirit. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Uniting with the whole company of heaven
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who has opened to us the gates of heaven, bring
us to reign with him in glory. Amen.
