# generated-date: 2025-12-28

From Christmas Eve to Epiphany

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
our light and our salvation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
To dispel the darkness of our night
you sent forth your Son, the firstborn of all creation,
to be the Christ, the light of the world.
Rejoicing in the mystery of the Word made flesh,
we acclaim him Emmanuel, as all creation sings to you.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 34 — Benedicam Dominum

I will bless the Lord at all times; *
the praise of God shall ever be in my mouth.
I will glory in the Lord; *
let the humble hear and rejoice.
Proclaim with me the greatness of the Lord; *
let us exalt the name of God together.
I sought the Lord, who answered me *
and delivered me out of all my terror.
Look upon God and be radiant, *
and let not your faces be ashamed.
I called in my affliction and the Lord heard me *
and saved me from all my troubles.
The angel of the Lord encompasses those who fear God *
and will deliver them.
Taste and see that the Lord is good; *
happy are they who trust in God!
Fear the Lord, you holy ones of God, *
for those who fear God lack nothing.
The young lions lack and suffer hunger, *
but those who seek the Lord lack nothing that is good.
Come, children, and listen to me; *
I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
Who among you loves life *
and desires long life to enjoy prosperity?
Keep your tongue from evil-speaking *
and your lips from lying words.
Turn from evil and do good; *
seek peace and pursue it.
The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, *
and the ears of God are open to their cry.
The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, *
to root out the remembrance of them from the earth.
The righteous cry, and the Lord hears them *
and delivers them from all their troubles.
The Lord is near to the brokenhearted *
and will save those whose spirits are crushed.
Many are the troubles of the righteous, *
but the Lord will deliver them out of them all.
The Lord will keep safe all their bones; *
not one of them shall be broken.
Evil shall slay the wicked, *
and those who hate the righteous will be punished.
O Lord, you redeem the life of your servants, *
and none will be punished who trust in you.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Isaiah 62:6-7, 10-12]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Your salvation, O God, is near to those who fear you:
your glory shall dwell in our land.
Your salvation, O God, is near to those who fear you:
Your glory shall dwell in our land.
I will listen to what you, Lord God, are saying,
for you are speaking peace to your faithful people
and to those who turn their hearts to you.
Your glory shall dwell in our land.
Mercy and truth have met together;
righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Your salvation, O God, is near to those who fear you:
Your glory shall dwell in our land.
Truth shall spring up from the earth,
and righteousness shall look down from heaven.
Your glory shall dwell in our land.
Righteousness shall go before you,
and peace shall be a pathway for you feet.
Your glory shall dwell in our land.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Luke 2:22-40]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of God’s Love,” or “A Song of the Holy City” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of God’s Love — 1 John 4:7–11, 12b

Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God; *
everyone who loves is born of God and knows God.
Whoever does not love does not know God, *
for God is love.
In this the love of God was revealed among us, *
that God sent the Son into the world,
so that we might live through him.
In this is love, not that we loved God but that God loved us, *
and sent the Son to be the expiation for our sins.
Beloved, since God loved us so much, *
we ought also to love one another.
For if we love one another, God abides in us, *
and God’s love will be perfected in us.

or

A Song of the Holy City — Revelation 21:1–5a

I saw a new heaven and a new earth; *
for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away,
and the sea was no more.
And I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem,
coming down out of heaven from God, *
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, *
“See, the home of God is among mortals.
God will dwell with them; they will be holy peoples, *
and God, God’s very self, will be with them;
wiping every tear from their eyes *
and Death will be no more;
mourning and crying and pain will be no more, *
for the first things have passed away.”
And the One who was seated on the throne said, *
“See, I am making all things new.”

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray to the Maker of the universe.
God of wisdom, you order all things:
help the Church to reveal the mystery of your love
and fill it with the Spirit of truth.
Holy one, make all things new.
Ruler of the universe, the government is on your shoulders:
guide the leaders of the nations
and bring in your reign of justice and righteousness.
Holy one, make all things new.
Source of all being, you call us to live together in unity:
protect by your mercy all your children,
bless our families and renew our communities.
Holy one, make all things new.
Giver of peace, you bring reconciliation in the child of Bethlehem:
by your healing power give to all who suffer
your gift of wholeness and peace.
Holy one, make all things new.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2025-12-28]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of glory, your splendour shines from a manger in Bethlehem, where the Light of the world is humbly born into the darkness of human night. Open our eyes to Christ’s presence in the shadows of our world, so that we, like him, may become beacons of your justice and defenders of all for whom there is no room. Amen.

(Christmas (until the First Sunday after Christmas))

God of all ages, in the birth of Christ your boundless love for your people shattered the power of darkness. Be born in us with that same love and light, so that our song may blend with all the choirs of heaven and earth to the glory of your holy name. Amen.

(Week of the First Sunday after Christmas)

God of glory, you have given us a new name and robed us in salvation. May we like Anna find our home in your presence, and like Simeon recognize Jesus as the Christ, so that, in joy and thanksgiving at becoming your children, we may join with all creation to sing your praise. Amen.

(Week of the Second Sunday after Christmas)

Gracious God, you have redeemed us through Jesus Christ, the firstborn of all creation, whose birth we celebrate as the child of Bethlehem. Bless us with every spiritual blessing, so that we may live as your adopted children and witness to your glory with unending praise and thanksgiving. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Rejoicing in the presence of God here among us
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God, who has called us out of darkness into the marvellous light
of Christ, bless us and fill us with peace. Amen.
