# generated-date: 2025-12-28

From Christmas Eve to Epiphany

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Blessed are you, O Christ, incarnate Word,
you were before time began
and came into the world to save us.
Blessed are you, Sun of righteousness;
you shine with the love of God
and illumine the whole universe.
Blessed are you, Child of Mary;
born in a manger, you shared our humanity.
Let heaven and earth shout their praise.
With all the voices of heaven,
we celebrate your coming, O Emmanuel.
Let heaven and earth shout their praise.
With all the creatures on earth
we sing and dance at your birth, O Shoot of Jesse.
Let heaven and earth shout their praise.

or

O Lord, open our lips
and our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
You laid the foundation of the earth
and the heavens are the work of your hands.
Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
creator of heaven and earth,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
As your living Word, eternal in heaven,
assumed the frailty of our mortal flesh,
so may the light of your love be born in us
to fill our hearts with joy as we sing.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 93 — Dominus regnavit

The Lord reigns and has put on splendid apparel;
the Lord is robed in splendour and girded with strength. *
The Lord has made the whole world so sure
that it cannot be moved;
ever since the world began, your throne has been established; *
you are from everlasting.
The waters have lifted up, O Lord, the waters have lifted up their
voice; *
the waters have lifted up their pounding waves.
Mightier than the sound of many waters,
mightier than the breakers of the sea, *
mightier is the Lord who dwells on high.
Your testimonies are very sure, *
and holiness adorns your house, O Lord,
for ever and for evermore.

Psalm 96 — Cantate Domino

Sing to the Lord a new song; *
sing to the Lord, all the whole earth.
Sing to the Lord and bless the divine name; *
proclaim the good news of our salvation from day to day.
Declare the glory of the Lord among the nations *
and the wonders of God among all peoples.
For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, *
more to be feared than all gods.
As for all the gods of the nations, they are but idols; *
but it is you, O Lord, who made the heavens.
Oh, the majesty and magnificence of your presence! *
Oh, the power and the splendour of your sanctuary!
Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples; *
ascribe to the Lord honour and power.
Ascribe to the Lord the honour due the divine name; *
bring offerings and come into the courts of the Lord.
Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; *
let the whole earth tremble before God.
Tell it out among the nations: "The Lord reigns! *
The Lord who made the world so firm that it cannot be moved
will judge the peoples with equity."
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad;
let the sea thunder and all that is in it; *
let the field be joyful and all that is therein.
Then shall all the trees of the wood shout for joy
before the Lord who is coming, *
who is coming to judge the earth.
The Lord will judge the world with righteousness *
and the peoples with truth.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 1:1-2, 7b-28]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

The Word of life which was from the beginning
We proclaim to you.
The darkness is passing away
and the true light is already shining;
The Word of life which was from the beginning.
That which we heard, which we saw with our eyes,
and touched with our hands,
We proclaim to you.
For our fellowship is with God
and with God’s beloved, Jesus the Christ.
The Word of life which was from the beginning
We proclaim to you.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Colossians 1:9-20]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Hannah,” or “A Song of God’s Chosen One” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Hannah — 1 Samuel 2:1, 2, 3b–5, 7, 8

My heart exults in the Lord; *
my strength is exalted in my God.
My mouth derides my enemies, *
because I rejoice in your salvation.
There is no Holy One like you, O Lord, *
nor any Rock like you, our God.
For you are a God of knowledge *
and by you our actions are weighed.
The bows of the mighty are broken, *
but the feeble gird on strength.
Those who were full now hire themselves out for bread, *
but those who were hungry are well fed.
The barren woman has borne sevenfold, *
but she who has many children is forlorn.
Both the poor and the rich are of your making; *
you bring low and you also exalt.
You raise up the poor from the dust, *
and lift the needy from the ash heap.
You make them sit with the rulers *
and inherit a place of honour.
For the pillars of the earth are yours *
and on them you have set the world.

or

A Song of God’s Chosen One — Isaiah 11:1, 2, 3b–4a, 6, 9

There shall come forth a shoot from the stock of Jesse, *
and a branch shall grow out of his roots.
And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, *
the spirit of wisdom and understanding,
the spirit of counsel and might, *
the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord.
He shall not judge by what his eyes see, *
or decide by what his ears hear,
but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, *
and decide with equity for the meek of the earth.
The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, *
and the leopard shall lie down with the kid,
the calf, the lion and the fatling together, *
with a little child to lead them.
They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, *
for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord
as the waters cover the sea.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray to the Creator of the universe.
Holy One, by the good news of our salvation
brought to Mary by the angel:
Hear us and grant us peace.
By the mystery of the Word made flesh:
Hear us and grant us peace.
By the birth in time of the timeless Son of God:
Hear us and grant us peace.
By the manifestation of your Beloved to the shepherds:
Hear us and grant us peace.
By the obedience of the Maker of the world to Mary and Joseph:
Hear us and grant us peace.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2025-12-28]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of glory, your splendour shines from a manger in Bethlehem, where the Light of the world is humbly born into the darkness of human night. Open our eyes to Christ’s presence in the shadows of our world, so that we, like him, may become beacons of your justice and defenders of all for whom there is no room. Amen.

(Christmas (until the First Sunday after Christmas))

God of all ages, in the birth of Christ your boundless love for your people shattered the power of darkness. Be born in us with that same love and light, so that our song may blend with all the choirs of heaven and earth to the glory of your holy name. Amen.

(Week of the First Sunday after Christmas)

God of glory, you have given us a new name and robed us in salvation. May we like Anna find our home in your presence, and like Simeon recognize Jesus as the Christ, so that, in joy and thanksgiving at becoming your children, we may join with all creation to sing your praise. Amen.

(Week of the Second Sunday after Christmas)

Gracious God, you have redeemed us through Jesus Christ, the firstborn of all creation, whose birth we celebrate as the child of Bethlehem. Bless us with every spiritual blessing, so that we may live as your adopted children and witness to your glory with unending praise and thanksgiving. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Rejoicing in the presence of God here among us
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God, who has called us out of darkness into the marvellous light
of Christ,
bless us and fill us with peace. Amen.
