# generated-date: 2026-04-19

From Easter to Ascension

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Alleluia! Christ is risen.
The Lord is risen indeed. Alleluia!
Let us praise our God
Who has given us life and hope
By raising Jesus from the dead.
Let us rejoice, then, even in our distress.
We shall be counted worthy when Christ appears.
O God, you have claimed us as your own
And called us from our darkness into the light of your day.
Alleluia! Christ is risen.
The Lord is risen indeed. Alleluia!

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
In your resurrection, O Christ,
Let heaven and earth rejoice. Alleluia.
Blessed are you, God of our salvation,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
As once you ransomed your people from Egypt
and led them to freedom in the promised land,
so now you have delivered us from the dominion of darkness
and brought us into the loving reign of the risen Christ.
May we, the first fruits of your new creation,
rejoice in this new day you have made
and praise you for your mighty acts.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 148 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!
Praise the Lord from the heavens; *
praise God in the heights.
Praise the Lord all you angels; *
sing praises, all you heavenly host.
Praise the Lord, sun and moon; *
sing praises, all you shining stars.
Praise the Lord, heaven of heavens, *
sing praises, you waters above the heavens.
Let them praise the name of the Lord; *
who gave the command and they were created,
who made them stand fast for ever and ever, *
who gave them a law which shall not pass away.
Praise the Lord from the earth, *
you sea-monsters and all deeps;
fire and hail, snow and fog, *
tempestuous wind, doing God's will;
mountains and all hills, *
fruit trees and all cedars;
wild beasts and all cattle, *
creeping things and wingèd birds;
sovereigns of the earth and all peoples, *
princes and all rulers of the world;
young men and young women, *
old and young together.
Let them praise the name of the Lord, *
whose name only is exalted,
whose splendour is over earth and heaven.
The Lord has raised up strength for this people *
and praise for all loyal servants,
the children of Israel, *
a people who are near to the Lord.
Hallelujah!

Psalm 149 — Cantate Domino

Hallelujah!
Sing to the Lord a new song; *
sing the praises of God in the congregation of the faithful.
Let Israel rejoice in their maker; *
let the children of Zion be joyful in their sovereign.
Let them praise the name of the Lord in the dance; *
let them sing praise to God with timbrel and harp.
For the Lord takes pleasure in this people *
and adorns the poor with victory.
Let the faithful rejoice in triumph; *
let them be joyful on their beds.
Let the praises of God be in their throat *
and a two-edged sword in their hand;
to wreak vengeance on the nations *
and punishment on the peoples;
to bind their rulers in chains *
and their nobles with links of iron;
to inflict on them the judgement decreed; *
this is glory for all God's faithful people.
Hallelujah!

Psalm 150 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!  Praise the Lord in the holy temple; *
praise God in the firmament of divine power.
Praise the Lord for mighty acts; *
praise God for excellent greatness.
Praise the Lord with the blast of the ram's-horn; *
praise God with lyre and harp.
Praise the Lord with timbrel and dance; *
praise God with strings and pipe.
Praise the Lord with resounding cymbals; *
praise God with loud-clanging cymbals.
Let everything that has breath *
praise the Lord.
Hallelujah!

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Exodus 18:1-12]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Death is swallowed up in victory.
Where, O death, is your sting?
Christ is risen from the dead,
the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep.
Death is swallowed up in victory.
The trumpet will sound
and the dead shall be raised.
Where, O death, is your sting?
We shall not all sleep,
but we shall be changed.
Death is swallowed up in victory.
Where, O death, is your sting?

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 John 2:7-17]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “The Song of Moses and Miriam,” or “A Song of the New Creation” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

Song of Moses and Miriam — Exodus 15:1b–3, 6, 10, 13, 17

I will sing to the Lord, for you have triumphed gloriously, *
the horse and rider you have thrown into the sea.
The Lord is my strength and my song *
and has become my salvation.
This is my God whom I will praise, *
the God of my ancestors whom I will exalt.
The Lord is a warrior, *
the Lord is the divine name.
Your mighty hand, O Lord, is glorious in power; *
your mighty hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy.
At the blast of your nostrils, the sea covered them; *
they sank as lead in the mighty waters.
In your unfailing love, O Lord, *
you lead the people whom you have redeemed.
And by your invincible strength *
you will guide them to your holy dwelling.
You will bring them in and plant them, O Lord, *
in the sanctuary which your hands have established.

or

A Song of the New Creation — Isaiah 43:15, 16, 18, 19, 20c, 21

“I am the Lord, your Holy One, *
the Creator of Israel, your Sovereign.”
Thus says the Lord, who makes a way in the sea, *
a path in the mighty waters,
“Remember not the former things, *
nor consider the things of old.
Behold, I am doing a new thing; *
now it springs forth, do you not perceive it?
I will make a way in the wilderness
and rivers in the desert, *
to give drink to my chosen people,
the people whom I formed for myself, *
that they might declare my praise.”

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us offer our intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings, saying,
“Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.”
May we live as those who believe in the triumph of the cross.
Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.
May all people receive the good news of Christ’s victory.
Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.
May those born to new life in the waters of baptism
know the power of Christ’s resurrection.
Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.
May those who suffer pain and anguish
find healing and peace in the compassion of Christ.
Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.
May we be united in Christ’s undying love
with all who have passed through the gates of death.
Redeemer of Israel, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-04-19]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Living God, long ago, faithful women proclaimed the good news of Jesus’ resurrection and the world was changed forever. Teach us to keep faith with them, so that our witness may be as bold, our love as deep, and our faith as true. Amen.

(Week of Easter 2)

O God, you raised up Jesus Christ as your faithful witness and the firstborn of the dead. By your Holy Spirit, help us to witness to him so that those who have not yet seen may come to believe in him who is, and was, and is to come. Amen.

(Week of Easter 3)

Holy and righteous God, you raised Christ from the dead and glorified him at your right hand. Let the words of scripture, fulfilled in Jesus your Son, burn within our hearts and open our minds to recognize him in the breaking of bread. Amen.

(Week of Easter 4)

Holy Shepherd, you know your sheep by name and lead us to safety through the valleys of death. Guide us by your voice, so that we may walk in certainty and security to the joyous feast prepared in your house, where we celebrate with you for ever. Amen.

(Week of Easter 5)

God of life, you sent your Son into the world that we might live through him. May we abide in his risen life, so that we may bear the fruit of love for one another and know the fullness of joy. Amen.

(Week of Easter 6)

Faithful God, make our hearts bold with love for one another. Pour out your Spirit upon all people, so that we may live your justice and sing in praise the new song of your marvellous victory. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Rejoicing in God’s new creation
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord. Alleluia. Alleluia.
Thanks be to God. Alleluia. Alleluia.
May the risen Christ grant us the joys of eternal life. Amen.
