# generated-date: 2026-04-19

From Easter to Ascension

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, God of the living,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
From the deep waters of death
you brought your people to new birth
by raising Jesus to life in triumph.
Through him dark death has been destroyed
and radiant life is everywhere restored.
As you call us out of darkness into his marvellous light,
may our lives reflect his glory
and our lips repeat the endless song.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 114 — In exitu Israel

Hallelujah!
When Israel came out of Egypt, *
the house of Jacob from a people of strange speech,
Judah became the sanctuary of the Lord *
and Israel the dominion of God.
The sea beheld it and fled; *
Jordan turned and went back.
The mountains skipped like rams, *
and the little hills like young sheep.
What ailed you, O sea, that you fled? *
O Jordan, that you turned back?
You mountains, that you skipped like rams? *
You little hills like young sheep?
Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, *
at the presence of the God of Jacob,
who turned the hard rock into a pool of water *
and flint-stone into a flowing spring.

Psalm 115 — Non nobis, Domine

Not to us, O Lord, not to us, but to your name give glory; *
because of your love and because of your faithfulness.
Why should the heathen say, *
"Where then is their God?"
Our God is in heaven; *
whatever God wills to do comes to pass.
Their idols are silver and gold, *
the work of human hands.
They have mouths, but they cannot speak; *
eyes have they, but they cannot see;
they have ears, but they cannot hear; *
noses, but they cannot smell;
they have hands, but they cannot feel;
feet, but they cannot walk; *
they make no sound with their throat.
Those who make them are like them, *
and so are all who put their trust in them.
O Israel, trust in the Lord, *
who is your help and your shield.
O house of Aaron, trust in the Lord; *
who is your help and your shield.
You who fear the Lord, trust in the Lord; *
who is your help and your shield.
The Lord has been mindful of us and will bless us; *
blessing the house of Israel and the house of Aaron;
those who fear the Lord will be blessed, *
both small and great together.
May the Lord increase you more and more, *
you and your children after you.
May you be blessed by the Lord, *
the maker of heaven and earth.
The heaven of heavens is the Lord's, *
but the Lord entrusted the earth to its peoples.
The dead do not praise the Lord, *
nor all those who go down into silence;
But we will bless the Lord, *
from this time forth for evermore.
Hallelujah!

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Daniel 4:1-18]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Death is swallowed up in victory.
Where, O death, is your sting?
Christ is risen from the dead,
the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep.
Death is swallowed up in victory.
The trumpet will sound
and the dead shall be raised.
Where, O death, is your sting?
We shall not all sleep,
but we shall be changed.
Death is swallowed up in victory.
Where, O death, is your sting?

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Mark 16:9-20]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of Faith,” or ”A Song of God’s Children” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of Faith — 1 Peter 1:3–5, 18, 19, 21

Blessed are you, the God and Father *
of our Lord Jesus Christ!
By your great mercy we have been born anew to a living hope *
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
into an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, *
kept in heaven for us,
who are being protected by your power through faith, *
for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
We were ransomed from the futile ways of our ancestors *
not with perishable things like silver or gold
but with the precious blood of Christ *
like that of a lamb without spot or stain.
Through Christ we have confidence in you, O God,
who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, *
so that our faith and hope are set on you.

or

A Song of God’s Children — Romans 8:2, 14, 15b–19

The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus *
has set us free from the law of sin and death.
All who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God; *
for we have received the Spirit
that enables us to cry, “Abba, Father.”
The Spirit bears witness that we are children of God *
and if God’s children, then heirs of God;
if heirs of God, then fellow-heirs with Christ; *
since we suffer with him now,
that we may be glorified with him.
These sufferings that we now endure *
are not worth comparing to the glory
that shall be revealed.
For the creation waits with eager longing *
for the revealing of the children of God.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray, saying, “Giver of life, hear our prayer.”
Fill us with the joy of Christ’s holy and life-giving resurrection.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Strengthen isolated and persecuted churches in the Easter gospel.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Grant us humility to be subject to one another in Christian love.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Provide for those who lack food, work, or shelter.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Bring wars and famines throughout the earth to an end.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Reveal the light of your presence to the sick, the weak, and the dying.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.
Send the fire of your Holy Spirit upon your people.
Giver of life, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-04-19]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Living God, long ago, faithful women proclaimed the good news of Jesus’ resurrection and the world was changed forever. Teach us to keep faith with them, so that our witness may be as bold, our love as deep, and our faith as true. Amen.

(Week of Easter 2)

O God, you raised up Jesus Christ as your faithful witness and the firstborn of the dead. By your Holy Spirit, help us to witness to him so that those who have not yet seen may come to believe in him who is, and was, and is to come. Amen.

(Week of Easter 3)

Holy and righteous God, you raised Christ from the dead and glorified him at your right hand. Let the words of scripture, fulfilled in Jesus your Son, burn within our hearts and open our minds to recognize him in the breaking of bread. Amen.

(Week of Easter 4)

Holy Shepherd, you know your sheep by name and lead us to safety through the valleys of death. Guide us by your voice, so that we may walk in certainty and security to the joyous feast prepared in your house, where we celebrate with you for ever. Amen.

(Week of Easter 5)

God of life, you sent your Son into the world that we might live through him. May we abide in his risen life, so that we may bear the fruit of love for one another and know the fullness of joy. Amen.

(Week of Easter 6)

Faithful God, make our hearts bold with love for one another. Pour out your Spirit upon all people, so that we may live your justice and sing in praise the new song of your marvellous victory. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Rejoicing in God’s new creation
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord. Alleluia. Alleluia.
Thanks be to God. Alleluia. Alleluia.
May the risen Christ grant us the joys of eternal life. Amen.
