# generated-date: 2026-01-11

From Epiphany through Presentation

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
our light and our salvation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
You gave your Christ as a light to the nations,
and through the anointing of the Spirit
you established us as a royal priesthood.
As you call us into your marvellous light,
may our lives bear witness to your truth
and our lips never cease to proclaim your praise.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 111 — Confitebor tibi

Hallelujah!
I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart, *
in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation.
Great are the deeds of the Lord! *
They are studied by all who delight in them.
O Lord, your work is full of majesty and splendour, *
and your righteousness endures for ever.
You make your marvellous works to be remembered; *
you are gracious and full of compassion.
You give food to those who fear you; *
you are ever mindful of your covenant.
You have shown your people the power of your works *
in giving them the lands of the nations.
The works of your hands are faithfulness and justice; *
all your commandments are sure.
They stand fast for ever and ever, *
because they are done in truth and equity.
You send redemption to your people;
you commanded your covenant for ever; *
holy and awesome is your name.
The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom; *
those who act accordingly have a good understanding;
the praise of the Lord endures for ever.

Psalm 112 — Beatus vir

Hallelujah!
Happy are they who fear the Lord *
and have great delight in the divine commandments!
Their descendants will be mighty in the land; *
the generation of the upright will be blessed.
Wealth and riches will be in their house, *
and their righteousness will last for ever.
Light shines in the darkness for the upright; *
the righteous are merciful and full of compassion.
It is good for them to be generous in lending *
and to manage their affairs with justice.
For they will never be shaken; *
the righteous will be kept in everlasting remembrance.
They will not be afraid of any evil rumours; *
their heart is right; they put their trust in the Lord.
Their heart is established and will not shrink, *
until they see their desire upon their enemies.
They have given freely to the poor, *
and their righteousness stands fast for ever;
they will hold up their head with honour.
The wicked will see it and be angry;
they will gnash their teeth and pine away; *
the desires of the wicked will perish.

Psalm 113 — Laudate, pueri

Hallelujah!
Give praise, you servants of the Lord; *
praise the name of the Lord.
Let the name of the Lord be blessed, *
from this time forth for evermore.
From the rising of the sun to its going down *
let the name of the Lord be praised.
The Lord is high above all nations, *
and is glorious above the heavens.
Who is like the Lord our God, *
who sits enthroned on high,
but stoops to behold *
the heavens and the earth?
The Lord takes up the weak out of the dust *
and lifts up the poor from the ashes.
The Lord sets them with the rulers, *
with the rulers of this people,
making the woman of a childless house *
to be a joyful mother of children.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Isaiah 40:1-11]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Arise, shine, for your light has come;
the glory of the Lord is rising upon you.
Arise, shine, for your light has come;
The glory of the Lord is rising upon you.
God’s salvation has been openly shown to all people.
The glory of the Lord is rising upon you.
Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
Arise, shine, for your light has come;
The glory of the Lord is rising upon you.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
Arise, shine, for your light has come;
The glory of the Lord is rising upon you.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
Arise, shine, for your light has come;
The glory of the Lord is rising upon you.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: John 1:29-34]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of Praise,” or “A Song of Christ’s Appearing” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of Praise — Revelation 4:11; 5:9b, 10

You are worthy, our Lord and God, *
to receive glory and honour and power.
For you have created all things, *
and by your will they have their being.
You are worthy, O Lamb, for you were slain, *
and by your blood you ransomed for God
saints from every tribe and language and nation.
You have made them a royal priesthood serving our God, *
and they will reign with you on earth.

or

A Song of Christ’s Appearing — 1 Timothy 3:16; 6:15a, 16

Christ Jesus was revealed in the flesh *
and vindicated in the spirit.
He was seen by angels *
and proclaimed among the nations.
Believed in throughout the world, *
he was taken up in glory.
This will be made manifest at the proper time *
by the blessed and only Sovereign,
who alone has immortality, *
and dwells in unapproachable light.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Redeemer of the nations, guide all who seek you with a pure heart.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.
Usher in your promised reign of justice and peace.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.
Encompass us with your light as with a cloak,
and conquer the darkness of our night.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.
Feed the hunger of your people in desert places with your eternal
bread.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.
Change our vessels of water into the gladdening wine of new life.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.
Welcome sinners to your banquet table.
Host of the wedding feast, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-01-11]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

O God of light and peace, whose glory, shining in the child of Bethlehem, still draws the nations to yourself: dispel the darkness that shrouds our path, so that we may come to kneel before Christ in true worship, offer him our hearts and souls, and return from his presence to live as he has taught. Amen.

(Week of the Baptism of Christ)

God, your voice moves over the waters. Immerse us in your grace, mark us with your image and raise us to live our baptismal vows empowered by the Holy Spirit and the example of Christ our Lord, in whose name we pray. Amen.

(Between the Baptism of Christ and Presentation)

Perfect Light of revelation, as you shone in the life of Jesus, whose epiphany we celebrate, so shine in us and through us, that we may become beacons of truth and compassion, enlightening all creation with deeds of justice and mercy. Amen.

or

O God, you spoke your word and revealed your good news in Jesus the Christ. Fill all creation with that word again, so that by proclaiming your joyful promises to all nations and singing of your glorious hope to all peoples, we may become one living body, your incarnate presence on the earth. Amen.

(Presentation)

God of steadfast love, you sent your Son to be the light of the world, saving people everywhere from sin and death. As Anna gave thanks for the freedom he would bring and Simeon say in him the dawn of redemption, complete your purpose once made known in him. Make us vessels of his light, so that all the world may glory in the splendour of your peace. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Believing in the promises of God
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who sends us to the nations, give us the power of the
Spirit. Amen.
