# generated-date: 2026-01-11

From Epiphany through Presentation

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Blessed are you, David’s heir, born to rule,
You received gifts from the magi.
Blessed are you, Son of Man, baptized by John,
You saved us from ourselves.
Blessed are you, Servant Lord,
teaching and preaching, healing and comforting,
You proclaimed God’s gracious reign.
With all the voices of heaven and earth,
we celebrate your epiphany.
Let heaven and earth shout their praise.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Your light springs up for the righteous
And all the peoples have seen your glory.
Blessed are you, Sovereign God,
ruler of the nations,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
From the rising of the sun to its setting
your name is proclaimed in all the world.
As the Sun of Righteousness dawns in our hearts,
anoint our lips with the seal of your Spirit
so that we may witness to your gospel
and sing your praise in all the earth.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 146 — Lauda, anima mea

Hallelujah! *
Praise the Lord, O my soul!
I will praise the Lord as long as I live;
I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.
Put not your trust in rulers, nor in any child of earth, *
for there is no help in them.
When they breathe their last, they return to earth, *
and in that day their thoughts perish.
Happy are they who have the God of Jacob for their help! *
For their hope is in the Lord their God,
who made heaven and earth, the seas,
and all that is in them; *
who keeps promises for ever;
who gives justice to those who are oppressed, *
food to those who hunger
and sets the prisoners free.
The Lord opens the eyes of the blind! *
The Lord lifts up those who are bowed down
and loves the righteous.
The Lord cares for the stranger *
and sustains the orphan and widow,
but frustrates the way of the wicked.
The Lord shall reign for ever, *
your God, O Zion, throughout all generations.
Hallelujah!

Psalm 147 — Laudate Dominum

Hallelujah!
How good it is to sing praises to our God! *
How pleasant it is to honour God with praise!
The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem *
and gathers the exiles of Israel.
The Lord heals the brokenhearted *
and binds up their wounds.
The Lord counts the number of stars *
and calls them all by their names.
Great is our Lord and mighty in power; *
there is no limit to the wisdom of God.
The Lord lifts up the lowly, *
but casts the wicked to the ground.
Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving; *
make music to our God upon the harp.
The Lord covers the heavens with clouds *
and prepares rain for the earth,
making grass to grow upon the mountains *
and green plants to serve humankind.
The Lord provides food for flocks and herds *
and for the young ravens when they cry.
The Lord is not impressed by the might of a horse *
and has no pleasure in human strength,
but finds pleasure in those who fear God, *
in those who await the gracious favour of the Lord.
Worship the Lord, O Jerusalem; *
praise your God, O Zion,
who has strengthened the bars of your gates, *
who has blessed your children within you.
For the Lord has established peace on your borders *
and satisfies you with the finest wheat.
The Lord sends out a command to the earth, *
and this word runs very swiftly.
The Lord gives snow like wool *
and scatters hoarfrost like ashes
and hail like bread-crumbs; *
who can stand against such cold?
The Lord sends forth the word and melts them, *
blowing with the wind and the waters flow.
The Lord declares the word to Jacob, *
statutes and judgements to Israel.
The Lord has not done so to any other nation; *
to them these judgements have not been revealed.
Hallelujah!

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Genesis 1:1—2:3]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness;
Let the whole earth tremble before God.
Tell it out among the nations that the Lord is sovereign.
O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.
Tell out the salvation of God from day to day.
Let the whole earth tremble before God.
Declare the glory of the Holy One among the nations
and the wonders of God among the peoples.
O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness;
Let the whole earth tremble before God.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Ephesians 1:3-14]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of the New Jerusalem,” or “A Song of the Covenant” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear,
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of the New Jerusalem — Isaiah 60:1–3, 11a, 18, 19, 14b

Arise, shine out, for your light has come, *
the glory of the Lord is rising upon you.
Though night still covers the earth, *
and darkness the peoples;
above you the Holy One arises, *
and above you God’s glory appears.
The nations will come to your light, *
and rulers to your dawning brightness.
Your gates will lie open continually, *
shut neither by day nor by night.
The sound of violence shall be heard no longer in your land, *
or ruin and devastation within your borders.
You will call your walls, Salvation, *
and your gates, Praise.
Nor will the sun give you daylight, *
nor moonlight shine upon you;
but the Lord will be your everlasting light, *
your God will be your splendour.
For you shall be called the city of God, *
the dwelling of the Holy One of Israel.

or

A Song of the Covenant — Isaiah 42:5–8a

Thus says God, who created the heavens, *
who fashioned the earth and all that dwells in it;
who gives breath to the people upon it *
and spirit to those who walk in it,
“I am the Lord and I have called you in righteousness, *
I have taken you by the hand and kept you;
I have given you as a covenant to the people, *
a light to the nations, to open the eyes that are blind,
to bring out the captives from the dungeon, *
from the prison, those who sit in darkness.
I am the Lord, that is my name; *
my glory I give to no other.”

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Everlasting Light of creation, may your people in all the world
worship in spirit and in truth.
Holy one, shine upon us and hear us.
May the Church discover that unity which is your will.
Holy one, shine upon us and hear us.
May the nations of the earth seek after the ways that make for peace.
Holy one, shine upon us and hear us.
May the whole creation be set free
to enjoy the glorious liberty of your children.
Holy one, shine upon us and hear us.
May all who with Christ have entered the shadow of death
rest in peace and rise in glory.
Holy one, shine upon us and hear us.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-01-11]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

O God of light and peace, whose glory, shining in the child of Bethlehem, still draws the nations to yourself: dispel the darkness that shrouds our path, so that we may come to kneel before Christ in true worship, offer him our hearts and souls, and return from his presence to live as he has taught. Amen.

(Week of the Baptism of Christ)

God, your voice moves over the waters. Immerse us in your grace, mark us with your image and raise us to live our baptismal vows empowered by the Holy Spirit and the example of Christ our Lord, in whose name we pray. Amen.

(Between the Baptism of Christ and Presentation)

Perfect Light of revelation, as you shone in the life of Jesus, whose epiphany we celebrate, so shine in us and through us, that we may become beacons of truth and compassion, enlightening all creation with deeds of justice and mercy. Amen.

or

O God, you spoke your word and revealed your good news in Jesus the Christ. Fill all creation with that word again, so that by proclaiming your joyful promises to all nations and singing of your glorious hope to all peoples, we may become one living body, your incarnate presence on the earth. Amen.

(Presentation)

God of steadfast love, you sent your Son to be the light of the world, saving people everywhere from sin and death. As Anna gave thanks for the freedom he would bring and Simeon saw in him the dawn of redemption, complete your purpose once made known in him. Make us vessels of his light, so that all the world may glory in the splendour of your peace. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Believing in the promises of God
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who sends us to the nations, give us the power of the
Spirit. Amen.
