# generated-date: 2026-03-08

From Ash Wednesday until the

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

We cast our burdens upon you, O Lord,
And you will sustain us.
Create in us clean hearts, O God,
And renew a right spirit within us.
Cast us not away from your presence
And take not your Holy Spirit from us.
Give us the joy of your saving help again
And sustain us by your bountiful spirit.
Blessed are you, O Holy One,
The God of our salvation who bears our burdens.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Hear our voice, O Lord, according to your faithful love,
According to your judgement give us life.
Blessed are you, God of compassion and mercy,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
In the darkness of our sin,
your light breaks forth like the dawn
and your healing springs up for deliverance.
As we rejoice in the gift of your saving help,
sustain us with your bountiful Spirit
and open our lips to sing your praise.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 93 — Dominus regnavit

The Lord reigns and has put on splendid apparel;
the Lord is robed in splendour and girded with strength. *
The Lord has made the whole world so sure
that it cannot be moved;
ever since the world began, your throne has been established; *
you are from everlasting.
The waters have lifted up, O Lord, the waters have lifted up their
voice; *
the waters have lifted up their pounding waves.
Mightier than the sound of many waters,
mightier than the breakers of the sea, *
mightier is the Lord who dwells on high.
Your testimonies are very sure, *
and holiness adorns your house, O Lord,
for ever and for evermore.

Psalm 96 — Cantate Domino

Sing to the Lord a new song; *
sing to the Lord, all the whole earth.
Sing to the Lord and bless the divine name; *
proclaim the good news of our salvation from day to day.
Declare the glory of the Lord among the nations *
and the wonders of God among all peoples.
For great is the Lord and greatly to be praised, *
more to be feared than all gods.
As for all the gods of the nations, they are but idols; *
but it is you, O Lord, who made the heavens.
Oh, the majesty and magnificence of your presence! *
Oh, the power and the splendour of your sanctuary!
Ascribe to the Lord, you families of the peoples; *
ascribe to the Lord honour and power.
Ascribe to the Lord the honour due the divine name; *
bring offerings and come into the courts of the Lord.
Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness; *
let the whole earth tremble before God.
Tell it out among the nations: "The Lord reigns! *
The Lord who made the world so firm that it cannot be moved
will judge the peoples with equity."
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad;
let the sea thunder and all that is in it; *
let the field be joyful and all that is therein.
Then shall all the trees of the wood shout for joy
before the Lord who is coming, *
who is coming to judge the earth.
The Lord will judge the world with righteousness *
and the peoples with truth.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Genesis 44:1-17]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Incline your ear to me;
make haste to answer when I call.
Incline your ear to me;
Make haste to answer when I call.
Lord, hear my prayer
and let my cry come before you.
Make haste to answer when I call.
Hide not your face from me
in the day of my trouble.
Make haste to answer when I call.
You endure for ever
and your name from age to age.
Make haste to answer when I call.
You will arise and have compassion on Zion,
for it is time to have pity upon her.
Make haste to answer when I call.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 8:1-10]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “The Song of Manasseh,” or “A Song of Humility” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

Song of Manasseh — Manasseh 1a, 2, 4, 6, 7ab, 9ac, 11, 12, 14b, 15b

Lord almighty and God of our ancestors, *
you who made heaven and earth in all their glory:
All things tremble with awe at your presence, *
before your great and mighty power.
Immeasurable and unsearchable is your promised mercy, *
for you are God, Most High.
You are full of compassion, long-suffering and very merciful, *
and you relent at human suffering.
O God, according to your great goodness,
you have promised forgiveness for repentance *
to those who have sinned against you.
The sins I have committed against you *
are more in number than the sands of the sea.
I am not worthy to look up to the height of heaven, *
because of the multitude of my iniquities.
And now I bend the knee of my heart before you, *
imploring your kindness upon me.
I have sinned, O God, I have sinned, *
and I acknowledge my transgressions.
Unworthy as I am, you will save me, *
according to your great mercy.
For all the host of heaven sings your praise, *
and your glory is for ever and ever.

or

A Song of Humility — Hosea 6:1, 3–4, 6

Come let us return to the Lord *
who has torn us and will heal us.
God has stricken us *
and will bind up our wounds.
After two days, God will revive us, *
and on the third day will raise us up,
so that we may live in the presence of the Lord.
Let us strive to know the Lord, *
whose appearing is as sure as the sunrise.
God will come to us like the showers, *
like the spring rains that water the earth.
“O Ephraim, how shall I deal with you? *
How shall I deal with you, O Judah?
Your love for me is like the morning mist, *
like the dew that goes early away.
Therefore, I have hewn them by the prophets, *
and my judgement goes forth as the light.
For loyalty is my desire and not sacrifice, *
and the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.”

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us offer our intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings, saying,
“God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.”
For the one holy catholic and apostolic Church
throughout the world,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For the mission of the Church,
that in faithful witness it may preach the gospel
to the ends of the earth,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For those preparing for baptism
and for their teachers and sponsors,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For peace in the world,
that a spirit of respect and reconciliation
may grow among nations and peoples,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For the poor, the persecuted, the sick, and all who suffer;
for refugees, prisoners, and all in danger;
that they may be relieved and protected,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For all whom we have injured or offended,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.
For grace to amend our lives and to further your reign,
God of our ancestors, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-03-08]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of wilderness and water, your Son was baptized and tempted as we are. Guide us through this season, so that we may not avoid struggle, but open ourselves to blessing, through the cleansing depths of repentance and the heaven-rending words of the Spirit. Amen.

(The Week of the Second Sunday in Lent)

Artist of souls, you sculpted a people for yourself out of the rocks of wilderness and fasting. Help us as we take up your invitation to prayer and simplicity, so that the discipline of these forty days may sharpen our hunger for the feast of your holy friendship and whet our thirst for the living water you offer through Jesus Christ. Amen.

(The Week of the Third Sunday in Lent)

God of the covenant, in the glory of the cross your Son embraced the power of death and broke its hold over your people. In this time of repentance, draw all people to yourself, so that we who confess Jesus as Lord may put aside the deeds of death and accept the life of your kingdom. Amen.

(The Week of the Fourth Sunday in Lent)

God of the living, through baptism we pass from the shadow of death to the light of the resurrection. Remain with us and give us hope so that, rejoicing in the gift of the Spirit who gives life to our mortal flesh, we may be clothed with the garment of immortality, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Trusting in the compassion of God
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God our Redeemer show us compassion and love. Amen.
