# generated-date: 2026-03-08

From Ash Wednesday until the

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, God of our salvation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
In the darkness of our sin you have shone in our hearts
to give the light of the knowledge of your glory
in the face of Jesus Christ.
Open our eyes to acknowledge your presence,
so that we may grow into your likeness from glory to glory.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 34 — Benedicam Dominum

I will bless the Lord at all times; *
the praise of God shall ever be in my mouth.
I will glory in the Lord; *
let the humble hear and rejoice.
Proclaim with me the greatness of the Lord; *
let us exalt the name of God together.
I sought the Lord, who answered me *
and delivered me out of all my terror.
Look upon God and be radiant, *
and let not your faces be ashamed.
I called in my affliction and the Lord heard me *
and saved me from all my troubles.
The angel of the Lord encompasses those who fear God *
and will deliver them.
Taste and see that the Lord is good; *
happy are they who trust in God!
Fear the Lord, you holy ones of God, *
for those who fear God lack nothing.
The young lions lack and suffer hunger, *
but those who seek the Lord lack nothing that is good.
Come, children, and listen to me; *
I will teach you the fear of the Lord.
Who among you loves life *
and desires long life to enjoy prosperity?
Keep your tongue from evil-speaking *
and your lips from lying words.
Turn from evil and do good; *
seek peace and pursue it.
The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, *
and the ears of God are open to their cry.
The face of the Lord is against those who do evil, *
to root out the remembrance of them from the earth.
The righteous cry, and the Lord hears them *
and delivers them from all their troubles.
The Lord is near to the brokenhearted *
and will save those whose spirits are crushed.
Many are the troubles of the righteous, *
but the Lord will deliver them out of them all.
The Lord will keep safe all their bones; *
not one of them shall be broken.
Evil shall slay the wicked, *
and those who hate the righteous will be punished.
O Lord, you redeem the life of your servants, *
and none will be punished who trust in you.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Jeremiah 6:9-15]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

The Responsory is said or sung.
Incline your ear to me;
make haste to answer when I call.
Incline your ear to me;
Make haste to answer when I call.
Lord, hear my prayer
and let my cry come before you.
Make haste to answer when I call.
Hide not your face from me
in the day of my trouble.
Make haste to answer when I call.
You endure for ever
and your name from age to age.
Make haste to answer when I call.
You will arise and have compassion on Zion,
for it is time to have pity upon her.
Make haste to answer when I call.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: John 5:25-29]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of Christ the Servant,” or “A Song of Repentance” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of Christ the Servant — 1 Peter 2:21b–25

Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, *
that you should follow in his steps.
He committed no sin, no guile was found on his lips, *
when he was reviled, he did not revile in turn.
When he suffered, he did not threaten, *
but he trusted himself to God who judges justly.
Christ himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, *
so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness.
By his wounds, you have been healed, *
for you were straying like sheep,
but have now returned *
to the shepherd and guardian of your souls.

or

A Song of Repentance — 1 John 1:5–9

This is the message we have heard from Christ
and proclaim to you: *
that God is light,
in whom there is no darkness at all.
If we say that we have fellowship with God
while we walk in darkness, *
we lie and do not do what is true.
But if we walk in the light
as God is in the light, *
we have fellowship with one another.
And the blood of Jesus, the Son of God, *
cleanses us from all our sins.
If we say that we have no sin, *
we deceive ourselves
and the truth is not in us.
If we confess our sins, *
the One who is faithful and just will forgive us
and cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray, saying, “Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.”
May your holy people triumph over evil and grow in grace.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.
May candidates for baptism and confirmation live by every word
that proceeds from your mouth.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.
May you guide the leaders of the nations
in the ways of mercy and truth.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.
May the needy not be forgotten
nor the hope of the poor be taken away.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.
May the sick in body, mind, and spirit
know your power to heal.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.
May the poor in spirit inherit the kingdom of heaven
and see you face to face.
Shepherd of souls, tend your flock.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-03-08]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of wilderness and water, your Son was baptized and tempted as we are. Guide us through this season, so that we may not avoid struggle, but open ourselves to blessing, through the cleansing depths of repentance and the heaven-rending words of the Spirit. Amen.

(The Week of the Second Sunday in Lent)

Artist of souls, you sculpted a people for yourself out of the rocks of wilderness and fasting. Help us as we take up your invitation to prayer and simplicity, so that the discipline of these forty days may sharpen our hunger for the feast of your holy friendship and whet our thirst for the living water you offer through Jesus Christ. Amen.

(The Week of the Third Sunday in Lent)

God of the covenant, in the glory of the cross your Son embraced the power of death and broke its hold over your people. In this time of repentance, draw all people to yourself, so that we who confess Jesus as Lord may put aside the deeds of death and accept the life of your kingdom. Amen.

(The Week of the Fourth Sunday in Lent)

God of the living, through baptism we pass from the shadow of death to the light of the resurrection. Remain with us and give us hope so that, rejoicing in the gift of the Spirit who gives life to our mortal flesh, we may be clothed with the garment of immortality, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Trusting in the compassion of God
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God our Redeemer show us compassion and love. Amen.
