# generated-date: 2026-06-17

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Lord, open our lips,
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
You laid the foundations of the earth
And the heavens are the work of your hands.

or

O God, let our mouth proclaim your praise
And your glory all the day long.
The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 119

Aleph Beati immaculati
Happy are they whose way is blameless, *
who walk in the law of the Lord!
Happy are they who observe your decrees *
and seek you with all their hearts;
who never do any wrong, *
but always walk in your ways.
You laid down your commandments, *
that we should fully keep them.
Oh, that my ways were made so direct *
that I might keep your statutes!
Then I should not be put to shame, *
when I regard all your commandments.
I will thank you with an unfeigned heart, *
when I have learned your righteous judgements.
I will keep your statutes; *
do not utterly forsake me.
Beth In quo corrigit?
How shall the young cleanse their way? *
By keeping to your words.
With my whole heart I seek you; *
let me not stray from your commandments.
I treasure your promise in my heart, *
that I may not sin against you.
Blessed are you, O Lord; *
instruct me in your statutes.
With my lips will I recite *
all the judgements of your mouth.
I have taken greater delight in the way of your decrees *
than in all manner of riches.
I will meditate on your commandments *
and give attention to your ways.
My delight is in your statutes; *
I will not forget your word.
Gimel Retribue servo tuo
Deal bountifully with your servant, *
that I may live and keep your word.
Open my eyes, that I may see *
the wonders of your law.
I am a stranger here on earth; *
do not hide your commandments from me.
My soul is consumed at all times *
with longing for your judgements.
You have rebuked the insolent; *
cursed are they who stray from your commandments!
Turn from me shame and rebuke, *
for I have kept your decrees.
Even though rulers sit and plot against me, *
I will meditate on your statutes.
For your decrees are my delight, *
and they are my counsellors.
Daleth Adhæsit pavimento
My soul cleaves to the dust; *
give me life according to your word.
I have confessed my ways, and you answered me; *
instruct me in your statutes.
Make me understand the way of your commandments, *
that I may meditate on your marvellous works.
My soul melts away for sorrow; *
strengthen me according to your word.
Take from me the way of lying; *
let me find grace through your law.
I have chosen the way of faithfulness; *
I have set your judgements before me.
I hold fast to your decrees; *
O Lord, let me not be put to shame.
I will run the way of your commandments, *
for you have set my heart at liberty.
He Legem pone
Teach me, O Lord, the way of your statutes, *
and I shall keep it to the end.
Give me understanding, and I shall keep your law; *
I shall keep it with all my heart.
Make me go in the path of your commandments, *
for that is my desire.
Incline my heart to your decrees *
and not to unjust gain.
Turn my eyes from watching what is worthless; *
give me life in your ways.
Fulfil your promise to your servant, *
which you make to those who fear you.
Turn away the reproach which I dread, *
because your judgements are good.
Behold, I long for your commandments; *
in your righteousness preserve my life.
Waw Et veniat super me
Let your loving-kindness come to me, O Lord, *
and your salvation, according to your promise.
Then shall I have a word for those who taunt me, *
because I trust in your words.
Do not take the word of truth out of my mouth, *
for my hope is in your judgements.
I shall continue to keep your law; *
I shall keep it for ever and ever.
I will walk at liberty, *
because I study your commandments.
I will tell of your decrees before kings *
and will not be ashamed.
I delight in your commandments, *
which I have always loved.
I will lift up my hands to your commandments, *
and I will meditate on your statutes.
Zayin Memor esto verbi tui
Remember your word to your servant, *
because you have given me hope.
This is my comfort in my trouble, *
that your promise gives me life.
The proud have derided me cruelly, *
but I have not turned from your law.
When I remember your judgements of old, *
O Lord, I take great comfort.
I am filled with a burning rage, *
because of the wicked who forsake your law.
Your statutes have been like songs to me
wherever I have lived as a stranger.
I remember your name in the night, O Lord, *
and dwell upon your law.
This is how it has been with me, *
because I have kept your commandments.
Heth Portio mea, Domine
You only are my portion, O Lord; *
I have promised to keep your words.
I entreat you with all my heart, *
be merciful to me according to your promise.
I have considered my ways *
and turned my feet toward your decrees.
I hasten and do not tarry *
to keep your commandments.
Though the cords of the wicked entangle me, *
I do not forget your law.
At midnight I will rise to give you thanks, *
because of your righteous judgements.
I am a companion of all who fear you *
and of those who keep your commandments.
The earth, O Lord, is full of your love; *
instruct me in your statutes.
Teth Bonitatem fecisti
O Lord, you have dealt graciously with your servant, *
according to your word.
Teach me discernment and knowledge, *
for I have believed in your commandments.
Before I was afflicted I went astray, *
but now I keep your word.
You are good and you bring forth good; *
instruct me in your statutes.
The proud have smeared me with lies, *
but I will keep your commandments with my whole heart.
Their heart is gross and fat, *
but my delight is in your law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, *
that I might learn your statutes.
The law of your mouth is dearer to me *
than thousands in gold and silver.
Yodh Manus tuæ fecerunt me
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; *
give me understanding,
that I may learn your commandments.
Those who fear you will be glad when they see me, *
because I trust in your word.
I know, O Lord, that your judgements are right *
and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Let your loving-kindness be my comfort *
as you have promised to your servant.
Let your compassion come to me, that I may live, *
for your law is my delight.
Let the arrogant be put to shame,
for they wrong me with lies; *
but I will meditate on your commandments.
Let those who fear you turn to me, *
and also those who know your decrees.
Let my heart be sound in your statutes, *
that I may not be put to shame.
Kaph Deficit in salutare
My soul has longed for your salvation; *
I have put my hope in your word.
My eyes have failed from watching for your promise, *
and I say, "When will you comfort me?"
I have become like a leather flask in the smoke, *
but I have not forgotten your statutes.
How much longer must I wait? *
When will you give judgement
against those who persecute me?
The proud have dug pits for me; *
they do not keep your law.
All your commandments are true; *
help me, for they persecute me with lies.
They had almost made an end of me on earth, *
but I have not forsaken your commandments.
In your loving-kindness, revive me, *
that I may keep the decrees of your mouth.
Lamedh In æternum, Domine
O Lord, your word is everlasting; *
it stands firm in the heavens.
Your faithfulness remains from one generation to another; *
you established the earth, and it abides.
By your decree these continue to this day, *
for all things are your servants.
If my delight had not been in your law, *
I should have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget your commandments, *
because by them you give me life.
I am yours; oh, that you would save me, *
for I study your commandments!
Though the wicked lie in wait for me to destroy me, *
I will apply my mind to your decrees.
I see that all things come to an end, *
but your commandment has no bounds.
Mem Quomodo dilexi!
Oh, how I love your law! *
All the day long it is in my mind.
Your commandment has made me wiser than my enemies, *
and it is always with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers, *
for your decrees are my study.
I am wiser than the elders, *
because I observe your commandments.
I restrain my feet from every evil way, *
that I may keep your word.
I do not shrink from your judgements, *
because you yourself have taught me.
How sweet are your words to my taste! *
They are sweeter than honey to my mouth.
Through your commandments I gain understanding; *
therefore I hate every lying way.
Nun Lucerna pedibus meis
Your word is a lantern to my feet *
and a light upon my path.
I have sworn and am determined *
to keep your righteous judgements.
I am deeply troubled; *
preserve my life, O Lord, according to your word.
Accept, O Lord, the willing tribute of my lips, *
and teach me your judgements.
My life is always in my hand, *
yet I do not forget your law.
The wicked have set a trap for me, *
but I have not strayed from your commandments.
Your decrees are my inheritance for ever; *
truly, they are the joy of my heart.
I have applied my heart to fulfil your statutes *
for ever and to the end.
Samekh Iniquos odio habui
I hate those who have a divided heart, *
but your law do I love.
You are my refuge and shield; *
my hope is in your word.
Away from me, you wicked! *
I will keep the commandments of my God.
Sustain me according to your promise, that I may live, *
and let me not be disappointed in my hope.
Hold me up, and I shall be safe, *
and my delight shall be ever in your statutes.
You spurn all who stray from your statutes; *
their deceitfulness is in vain.
In your sight all the wicked of the earth are but dross; *
therefore I love your decrees.
My flesh trembles with dread of you; *
I am afraid of your judgements.
Ayin Feci judicium
I have done what is just and right; *
do not deliver me to my oppressors.
Be surety for your servant's good; *
let not the proud oppress me.
My eyes have failed from watching for your salvation *
and for your righteous promise.
Deal with your servant according to your loving-kindness *
and teach me your statutes.
I am your servant; grant me understanding, *
that I may know your decrees.
It is time for you to act, O Lord, *
for they have broken your law.
Truly, I love your commandments *
more than gold and precious stones.
I hold all your commandments to be right for me; *
all paths of falsehood I abhor.
Pe Mirabilia
Your decrees are wonderful; *
therefore I obey them with all my heart.
When your word goes forth it gives light; *
it gives understanding to the simple.
I open my mouth and pant; *
I long for your commandments.
Turn to me in mercy, *
as you always do to those who love your name.
Steady my footsteps in your word; *
let no iniquity have dominion over me.
Rescue me from those who oppress me, *
and I will keep your commandments.
Let your countenance shine upon your servant *
and teach me your statutes.
My eyes shed streams of tears, *
because people do not keep your law.
Tsadhe Justus es, Domine
You are righteous, O Lord, *
and upright are your judgements.
You have issued your decrees *
with justice and in perfect faithfulness.
My indignation has consumed me, *
because my enemies forget your words.
Your word has been tested to the uttermost, *
and your servant holds it dear.
I am small and of little account, *
yet I do not forget your commandments.
Your justice is an everlasting justice *
and your law is the truth.
Trouble and distress have come upon me, *
yet your commandments are my delight.
The righteousness of your decrees is everlasting; *
grant me understanding, that I may live.
Qoph Clamavi in toto, corde meo
I call with my whole heart; *
answer me, O Lord, that I may keep your statutes.
I call to you; oh, that you would save me! *
I will keep your decrees.
Early in the morning I cry out to you, *
for in your word is my trust.
My eyes are open in the night watches, *
that I may meditate upon your promise.
Hear my voice, O Lord, according to your loving-kindness; *
according to your judgements, give me life.
They draw near who in malice persecute me; *
they are very far from your law.
You, O Lord, are near at hand, *
and all your commandments are true.
Long have I known from your decrees *
that you have established them for ever.
Resh Vide humilitatem
Behold my affliction and deliver me, *
for I do not forget your law.
Plead my cause and redeem me; *
according to your promise, give me life.
Deliverance is far from the wicked, *
for they do not study your statutes.
Great is your compassion, O Lord; *
preserve my life, according to your judgements.
There are many who persecute and oppress me, *
yet I have not swerved from your decrees.
I look with loathing at the faithless, *
for they have not kept your word.
See how I love your commandments! *
O Lord, in your mercy, preserve me.
The heart of your word is truth; *
all your righteous judgements endure for evermore.
Shin Principes persecuti sunt
Rulers have persecuted me without a cause, *
but my heart stands in awe of your word.
I am as glad because of your promise *
as one who finds great spoils.
As for lies, I hate and abhor them, *
but your law is my love.
Seven times a day do I praise you, *
because of your righteous judgements.
Great peace have they who love your law; *
for them there is no stumbling block.
I have hoped for your salvation, O Lord, *
and I have fulfilled your commandments.
I have kept your decrees *
and I have loved them deeply.
I have kept your commandments and decrees, *
for all my ways are before you.
Taw Appropinquet deprecatio
Let my cry come before you, O Lord; *
give me understanding, according to your word.
Let my supplication come before you; *
deliver me, according to your promise.
My lips shall pour forth your praise, *
when you teach me your statutes.
My tongue shall sing of your promise, *
for all your commandments are righteous.
Let your hand be ready to help me, *
for I have chosen your commandments.
I long for your salvation, O Lord, *
and your law is my delight.
Let me live, and I will praise you, *
and let your judgements help me.
I have gone astray like a sheep that is lost; *
search for your servant,
for I do not forget your commandments.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Numbers 11:24-33, (34-35)]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
and afterwards receive me with glory.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.
For I am always with you;
you hold me by my hand.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.
I will speak of all your works
in the gates of the city of Zion.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 1:28—2:11]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of the Lord’s Anointed,” or “A Song of the Bride” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of the Lord’s Anointed — Isaiah 61:1–3, 11, 6a

The Spirit of the Lord is upon me *
because God has anointed me,
sending me to bring good news to the oppressed, *
to bind up the broken-hearted,
to proclaim liberty to the captives, *
and the opening of the prison to those who are bound;
to proclaim the year of the Lord’s favour, *
to comfort all who mourn,
to give them a garland instead of ashes,
the oil of gladness instead of mourning, *
the mantle of praise instead of a faint spirit,
so that they may be called oaks of righteousness, *
the planting of the Lord, so that God may be glorified.
For as the earth puts forth her blossom, *
and as seeds in the garden spring up,
so shall the Lord make righteousness and praise *
blossom before all nations.
You shall be called priests of the Lord; *
they shall speak of you as ministers of our God.

or

A Song of the Bride — Isaiah 61:10, 11; 62:1–3

I will greatly rejoice in the Lord, *
my soul shall exult in my God;
who has clothed me with the garments of salvation, *
and has covered me with the cloak of integrity,
as a bridegroom decks himself with a garland, *
and as a bride adorns herself with her jewels.
For as the earth puts forth its blossom, *
and as seeds in the garden spring up,
so shall God make righteousness and praise *
blossom before all the nations.
For Zion’s sake I shall not keep silent, *
and for Jerusalem’s sake I will not rest,
until its deliverance shines out like the dawn, *
and its salvation as a burning torch.
For nations shall see your deliverance, *
and all rulers shall see your glory;
then you shall be called by a new name *
which the mouth of God will give.
You shall be a crown of glory in the hand of the Lord, *
a royal diadem in the hand of your God.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Liberator of the peoples, fill all who confess the name of Christ
with the power of your Holy Spirit.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Be the joy and the strength of all
whose lives are bound in mutual love
and of those who live in celibacy.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Grant your salvation to all who are far from home,
prisoners, exiles, and victims of oppression.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Show your kindness and mercy to all who are facing trials and
difficulties,
to those who are sick and to those who are dying.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Forgive our sins and set us free from all hardship,
distress, want, war, and injustice.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Guide us into new and just ways of sharing the goods of the earth,
so that we may live by the abundance of your mercies.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Strengthen us in our struggle
against exploitation, greed, and lack of concern,
so that we may find joy together.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.
Unite us in love and service,
so that we may live in communion with all Christ’s saints.
Holy one, accomplish your purposes in us.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-17]

O God, the author of peace and lover of concord, to know you is eternal life, to serve you is perfect freedom. Defend us your servants from the assaults of our enemies, so that we may trust in your defence, and not fear the power of any adversaries; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

or

Almighty and everlasting God, we thank you that you have brought us safely to the beginning of this day. Keep us from falling into sin or running into danger, order us in all our doings, and guide us to do always what is righteous in your sight; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God, who has called us out of darkness into the marvellous light
of Christ, bless us and fill us with peace. Amen.
