# generated-date: 2026-06-19

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Lord, open our lips,
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Hear our voice, O Lord, according to your faithful love,
According to your judgement give us life.

or

O God, let our mouth proclaim your praise
And your glory all the day long.
Our God is full of compassion and mercy:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 88 — Domine, Deus

O Lord, my God, my Saviour, *
by day and night I cry to you.
Let my prayer enter into your presence; *
incline your ear to my lamentation.
For I am full of trouble; *
my life is at the brink of the grave.
I am counted among those who go down to the Pit; *
I have become like one who has no strength;
lost among the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, *
whom you remember no more, for they are cut off from your hand.
You have laid me in the depths of the Pit, *
in dark places, and in the abyss.
Your anger weighs upon me heavily, *
and all your great waves overwhelm me.
You have put my friends far from me;
you have made me to be abhorred by them; *
I am in prison and cannot get free.
My sight has failed me because of trouble; *
Lord, I have called upon you daily;
I have stretched out my hands to you.
Do you work wonders for the dead? *
Will those who have died stand up and give you thanks?
Will your loving-kindness be declared in the grave *
or your faithfulness in the land of destruction?
Will your wonders be known in the dark? *
or your righteousness in the country where all is forgotten?
But as for me, O Lord, I cry to you for help; *
in the morning my prayer comes before you.
Lord, why have you rejected me? *
Why have you hidden your face from me?
Ever since my youth, I have been wretched and at the point of death; *
I have borne your terrors with a troubled mind.
Your blazing anger has swept over me; *
your terrors have destroyed me;
They surround me all day long like a flood; *
they encompass me on every side.
My friend and my neighbour you have put away from me, *
and darkness is my only companion.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Numbers 13:1-3, 21-30]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Forsake me not, O Lord;
be not far from me, O my God.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.
Make haste to help me,
O Lord of my salvation.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.
In you, O Lord, have I fixed my hope;
you will answer me, O Lord my God.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 2:25—3:8]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Humility,” or “A Song of the Word of the Lord” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Humility — Hosea 6:1, 3–4, 6

Come, let us return to the Lord *
who has torn us and will heal us.
God has stricken us *
and will bind up our wounds.
Let us strive to know the Lord *
whose appearing is as sure as the sunrise;
who comes to us like the showers, *
like the spring rains that water the earth.
“O Ephraim, how shall I deal with you? *
How shall I deal with you, O Judah?
Your love for me is like the morning mist, *
like the dew that goes early away.
For loyalty is my desire and not sacrifice, *
and the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings.”

or

A Song of the Word of the Lord — Isaiah 55:6–11

Seek the Lord, while the Lord may be found, *
call upon God while God is near.
Let the wicked abandon their ways, *
and the unrighteous their thoughts;
Return to the Lord, who will have mercy; *
to our God, who will richly pardon.
“For my thoughts are not your thoughts, *
neither are your ways my ways,” says the Lord.
“For as the heavens are higher than the earth, *
so are my ways higher than your ways
and my thoughts than your thoughts.
As the rain and the snow come down from above, *
and return not again but water the earth,
bringing forth life and giving growth, *
seed for sowing and bread to eat,
so is my word that goes forth from my mouth; *
it will not return to me fruitless,
but it will accomplish that which I purpose, *
and succeed in the task I gave it.”

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

God who restores us, may your people be true and faithful servants
of Christ.
Source of life, hear our prayer.
Bring those who are drawing to near to the light of faith to true
knowledge of you.
Source of life, hear our prayer.
Give our families and friends joy and satisfaction in all that they do.
Source of life, hear our prayer.
Comfort and sustain those who are lonely, sick, hungry, persecuted,
or ignored.
Source of life, hear our prayer.
Help us to contribute to the true growth and well-being of our country.
Source of life, hear our prayer.
Empower the whole human family to live together in justice and peace.
Source of life, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-19]

Almighty God and Father, your beloved Son willingly endured the agony and shame of the cross for our redemption. Give us the courage to take up our cross and follow him in newness of life and hope; for he lives and reigns with you and the Holy Spirit, one God, now and for ever. Amen.

or

Gracious Father, you gave up your Son out of love for the world: lead us to ponder the mysteries of his passion, that we may know eternal peace through the shedding of our Saviour’s blood, Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God our Redeemer show us compassion and love. Amen.
