# generated-date: 2026-06-16

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

O Lord, I call to you; come to me quickly;
Hear my voice when I cry to you.
Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense,
The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

or

O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.
Reveal among us the light of your presence,
So that we may behold your power and glory.

or

O God, be not far from us.
Come quickly to help us, O God.
Our God and Saviour draws near:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The evening hymn: “Light of the World, in Grace and Beauty”

Light of the world, in grace and beauty,
mirror of God’s eternal face,
transparent flame of love’s free duty,
you bring salvation to our race.
Now as we see the lights of evening
we raise our voice in hymns of praise:
worthy are you of endless blessing,
sun of our night, lamp of our days.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 78

Part I Attendite, popule
Hear my teaching, O my people; *
incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
I will open my mouth in a parable; *
I will declare the mysteries of ancient times.
That which we have heard and known,
and what our ancestors have told us, *
we will not hide from their children.
We will recount to generations to come
the praiseworthy deeds and the power of the Lord, *
who has done wonderful works.
The Lord gave a decree to Jacob and established a law for Israel, *
commanding them to teach their children;
that the generations to come might know,
and the children yet unborn; *
that they in their turn might tell it to their children;
so that they might put their trust in God, *
and not forget those mighty deeds,
but keep the commandments;
and not be like their ancestors, *
a stubborn and rebellious generation,
a generation whose heart was not steadfast, *
and whose spirit was not faithful to God.
The people of Ephraim, armed with the bow, *
turned back in the day of battle;
they did not keep the covenant of God, *
and refused to walk in the law;
they forgot what God had done, *
and the wonders God had shown them.
God worked marvels in the sight of their ancestors, *
in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan,
splitting open the sea and letting them pass through, *
making the waters stand up like walls;
leading them with a cloud by day, *
and all the night through with the glow of fire;
splitting hard rocks in the wilderness, *
and giving them drink as from the great deep;
bringing streams out of the cliff, *
and the waters gushing out like rivers.
But they went on sinning against God, *
rebelling in the desert against the Most High.
They tested God in their hearts, *
demanding food for their craving.
They railed against God and said, *
"Can God set a table in the wilderness?
True, God struck the rock, the waters gushed out,
and the gullies overflowed; *
but is God able to give bread or to provide meat for this people?"
Hearing this, the Lord was full of wrath; *
a fire was kindled against Jacob,
and the divine anger mounted against Israel;
for they had no faith in God, *
nor did they put their trust in the saving power of God.
So God commanded the clouds above *
and opened the doors of heaven,
raining down manna upon them to eat *
and giving them grain from heaven.
So mortals ate the bread of angels; *
God provided for them food enough.
The Lord caused the east wind to blow in the heavens *
and powerfully led out the south wind,
raining down flesh upon them like dust *
and winged birds like the sand of the sea,
letting it fall in the midst of their camp *
and round about their dwellings.
So they ate and were well filled, *
for God gave them what they craved.
But they did not stop their craving, *
though the food was still in their mouths.
So the anger of God mounted against them; *
the Lord slew their strongest men and laid low the youth of Israel.
In spite of all this, they went on sinning *
and had no faith in the wonderful works of God.
So the Lord brought their days to an end like a breath *
and their years in sudden terror.
Whenever God slew them, they would seek the Lord, *
and repent and diligently search for God.
They would remember that God was their rock, *
and the Most High God their redeemer.
But they flattered God with their mouths *
and lied with their tongues.
Their heart was not steadfast *
nor were they faithful to the covenant.
But God, being merciful, forgave their sins and did not destroy them, *
holding back the divine anger
and not permitting wrath to be roused.
For the Lord remembered that they were but flesh, *
a breath that goes forth and does not return.
Part II Quoties exacerbaverunt
How often the people disobeyed God in the wilderness *
and offended in the desert!
Again and again they tempted God *
and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
They did not remember the power of God *
in the day when the Lord ransomed them from the enemy;
how God wrought signs in Egypt *
and omens in the field of Zoan,
turning their rivers into blood, *
so that they could not drink of their streams;
sending swarms of flies among them, which ate them up, *
and frogs, which destroyed them; *
giving their crops to the caterpillar, *
the fruit of their toil to the locust;
killing their vines with hail *
and their sycamores with frost;
delivering their cattle to hailstones *
and their livestock to hot thunderbolts.
God poured out upon them blazing anger: *
fury, indignation and distress, a troop of destroying angels.
Giving full rein to anger, God did not spare their souls from death, *
but delivered their lives to the plague,
striking down all the firstborn of Egypt, *
the flower of youth in the dwellings of Ham.
God led this people like sheep *
and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
The Lord led them to safety, and they were not afraid; *
but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
God brought them to the holy land, *
the mountain the strong hand of God had won.
God drove out the Canaanites before them
and apportioned an inheritance to them by lot, *
making the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
But they tested and defied the Most High *
and did not keep the commandments.
They turned away and were disloyal like their ancestors; *
they were undependable like a warped bow.
They grieved God with their hill-altars *
and provoked displeasure with their idols.
Hearing this, God was angry *
and utterly rejected Israel;
forsaking the shrine at Shiloh, *
the tabernacle where God had lived among this people;
delivering the ark into captivity, *
the glory of God into the adversary's hand;
giving this people to the sword *
and becoming angry against the very inheritance of God.
The fire consumed their young men; *
there were no wedding songs for their young women.
Their priests fell by the sword, *
and their widows made no lamentation.
Then the Lord woke as though from sleep, *
like a warrior refreshed with wine,
striking the enemies of God on the backside *
and putting them to perpetual shame.
God rejected the tent of Joseph *
and did not choose the tribe of Ephraim;
choosing instead the tribe of Judah *
and Mount Zion, beloved by God,
where a sanctuary was built like the heights of heaven, *
like the everlasting earth.
God chose David as a servant *
and took him away from the sheepfolds,
bringing him from following the ewes, *
to be a shepherd over Jacob God's people
and over the inheritance of Israel.
So David shepherded them with a faithful and true heart *
and guided them with the skillfulness of God's hands.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 1:21—2:11]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Open my eyes, O Lord,
so that I may see the wonders of your law.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.
Lead me in the path of your commandments
for that is my desire.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.
Remember your word to your servant,
because you have given me hope.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 17:22-27]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of the Holy City,” or “A Song of the Lamb” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of the Holy City — Revelation 21:1–5a

I saw a new heaven and a new earth, *
for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away,
and the sea was no more.
And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem,
coming down out of heaven from God, *
prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.
And I heard a great voice from the throne saying, *
“Behold the dwelling place of God is among mortals.
The Lord will dwell with them and they shall be the peoples of God, *
and God, our God, will be with them.
The Lord will wipe every tear from their eyes, *
and death shall be no more.
Neither shall there be mourning,
nor crying, nor pain any more, *
for the former things have passed away.”
And the One who sat upon the throne said, *
“Behold, I make all things new.”

or

A Song of the Lamb — Revelation 19:1b, 2a, 5b, 6b, 7, 9b

Salvation and glory and power belong to our God, *
whose judgements are true and just.
Praise our God, all you servants of the Holy One, *
all who fear the Lord, both small and great.
The Lord our God, the Almighty reigns: *
let us rejoice and exult and give glory to God.
For the marriage of the Lamb has come, *
and his bride has made herself ready.
Blessed are those who are invited, *
to the wedding banquet of the Lamb.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Teach us, O Lord, the way of your statutes;
And lead us in the path of your commandments.
Keep our nation under your care;
And guide us in justice and truth.
Deal graciously with your servants;
Teach us discernment and knowledge.
Let not those in need be forgotten;
Nor the hope of the poor be taken away.
Guide the meek in judgement;
And teach your ways to the gentle.
Remember your people;
Whom you have redeemed of old.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-16]

Be our light in the darkness, O Lord, and in your great mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the love of your only Son, our Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.

or

Abide with us, Lord, for it is evening, and day is drawing to a close. Abide with us and with your whole Church, in the evening of the day, in the evening of life, in the evening of the world; abide with us and with all your faithful ones, O Lord, in time and in eternity. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May the Lord find us watching and waiting for Christ’s coming.
Amen.
