# generated-date: 2026-06-15

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

O Lord, I call to you; come to me quickly;
Hear my voice when I cry to you.
Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense,
The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

or

O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.
Send your Holy Spirit upon us,
And clothe your people with power from on high.

or

O God, be not far from us.
Come quickly to help us, O God.
You send forth your Spirit
And renew the face of the earth.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The evening hymn: “o Gracious Light, Lord Jesus Christ”

O gracious Light, Lord Jesus Christ,
in you the Father’s glory shone.
Immortal, holy, blest is God,
and blest are you God’s holy Son.
Now sunset comes, but light shines forth;
the lamps are lit to pierce the night.
Praise Author, Word, and Spirit: God
who dwells in the eternal light.
Worthy are you of endless praise,
O Word of God, life-giving Lord,
wherefore you are through all the earth
and in the highest heaven adored.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 77 — Voce mea ad Dominum

I will cry aloud to God; *
I will cry aloud, and God will hear me.
In the day of my trouble *
I sought the Lord;
my hands were stretched out by night and did not tire; *
I refused to be comforted.
I think of God, I am restless, *
I ponder, and my spirit faints.
You will not let my eyelids close; *
I am troubled and I cannot speak.
I consider the days of old; *
I remember the years long past;
I commune with my heart in the night; *
I ponder and search my mind.
Will the Lord cast me off for ever *
and no longer favour me?
O God, has your loving-kindness come to an end for ever *
and has your promise failed for evermore?
Have you forgotten to be gracious *
and in anger withheld compassion?
And I said, "My grief is this: *
the mighty hand of the Most High has lost its power."
I will remember your works, O Lord, *
and call to mind your wonders of old time.
I will meditate on all your acts *
and ponder your mighty deeds.
Your way, O God, is holy; *
who is so great a god as our God?
You are the God who works wonders *
and have declared your power among the peoples.
By your strength you have redeemed your people, *
the children of Jacob and Joseph.
The waters saw you, O God;
the waters saw you and trembled; *
the very depths were shaken.
The clouds poured out water; the skies thundered; *
your arrows flashed to and fro;
the sound of your thunder was in the whirlwind;
your lightnings lit up the world; *
the earth trembled and shook.
Your way was in the sea, and your paths in the great waters, *
yet your footsteps were not seen.
You led your people like a flock *
by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

Psalm 79 — Deus, venerunt

O God, the heathen have come into your inheritance;
they have profaned your holy temple; *
they have made Jerusalem a heap of rubble.
They have given the bodies of your servants
as food for the birds of the air, *
and the flesh of your faithful ones to the beasts of the field.
They have shed their blood like water on every side of Jerusalem, *
and there was no one to bury them.
We have become a reproach to our neighbours, *
an object of scorn and derision to those around us.
How long will you be angry, O Lord? *
Will your fury blaze like fire for ever?
Pour out your wrath upon the heathen who have not known you *
and upon the dominions that have not called upon your name.
For they have devoured Jacob *
and made his dwelling a ruin.
Remember not our past sins;
let your compassion be swift to meet us; *
for we have been brought very low.
Help us, O God our Saviour, for the glory of your name; *
deliver us and forgive us our sins, for your name's sake.
Why should the heathen say, "Where is their God?" *
Let it be known among the heathen and in our sight
that you avenge the shedding of your servants' blood.
Let the sorrowful sighing of the prisoners come before you, *
and by your great might spare those who are condemned to die.
May the revilings with which they reviled you, O Lord, *
return seven-fold into their bosoms.
For we are your people and the sheep of your pasture; *
we will give you thanks for ever
and show forth your praise from age to age.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 1:1-20]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Trust in the Lord with all your heart;
and be not wise in your own sight.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart;
And be not wise in your own sight.
In all your ways acknowledge the Lord
who will make straight your paths.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart;
And be not wise in your own sight.
Happy are those who find wisdom,
and those who get understanding.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart;
And be not wise in your own sight.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 17:14-21]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of God’s Grace,” or “A Song of God’s Children” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of God’s Grace — Ephesians 1:3–10

Blessed are you, *
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
for you have blessed us in Christ Jesus *
with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places.
You chose us to be yours in Christ
before the foundation of the world, *
so that we should be holy and blameless before you.
In love you destined us for adoption as your children
through Jesus Christ, *
according to the purpose of your will,
to the praise of your glorious grace, *
which you freely bestowed on us in the Beloved.
In you, we have redemption through the blood of Christ, *
the forgiveness of our sins,
according to the riches of your grace, *
which you have lavished upon us.
You have made known to us, in all wisdom and insight, *
the mystery of your will,
according to your purpose which you have set forth in Christ, *
as a plan for the fullness of time,
to unite all things in Christ, *
things in heaven and things on earth.

or

A Song of God’s Children — Romans 8:2, 14, 15b–19

The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus *
has set us free from the law of sin and death.
All who are led by the Spirit of God are children of God; *
for we have received the Spirit that enables us to cry, “Abba,
Father.”
The self-same Spirit bears witness that we are children of God, *
and if God’s children, then heirs of God;
if heirs of God, then fellow-heirs with Christ; *
since we suffer with him now, that we may be glorified with him.
These sufferings that we now endure *
are not worth comparing to the glory that shall be revealed.
For the creation waits with eager longing *
for the revealing of the children of God.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Show us your mercy, O God;
And grant us your salvation.
Ruler of all, save the King;
And teach his counsellors wisdom.
Let your bishops, priests, and deacons be clothed with righteousness;
Let your faithful people sing with joy.
Let your ways be known upon earth;
Your saving health among all nations.
Give your people the blessing of peace;
And may all the earth be filled with your glory.
Create in us clean hearts, O God,
And renew a right spirit within us.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-15]

Most holy God, the source of all good desires, all right judgements, and all just works: Give to us, your servants, that peace which the world cannot give, so that our minds may be fixed on the doing of your will, and that we, being delivered from the fear of all enemies, may live in peace and quietness; through the mercies of Christ Jesus our Saviour. Amen.

or

Kindle in our hearts, O God, the flame of love which never ceases, so that it may burn in us, giving light to others. May we shine for ever in your temple, set on fire with your eternal light, even your Son Jesus Christ, our Saviour and our Redeemer. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May the Spirit kindle in us the fire of God’s love. Amen.
