# generated-date: 2026-06-25

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

O Lord, I call to you; come to me quickly;
Hear my voice when I cry to you.
Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense,
The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

or

O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.
Your light springs up for the righteous
And all peoples have seen your glory.

or

O God, be not far from us.
Come quickly to help us, O God.
Christ has shown forth his glory:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The evening hymn: ”Christ, Mighty saviour”

Christ, mighty Saviour, Light of all creation,
you make the daytime radiant with sunlight
and to the night give glittering adornment,
stars in the heavens.
Now comes the day’s end as the sun is setting:
mirror of daybreak, pledge of resurrection;
while in the heavens choirs of stars appearing
hallow the nightfall.
Therefore we come now, evening rites to offer,
joyfully chanting holy hymns to praise you,
with all creation joining hearts and voices
singing your glory.
Give heed, we pray you, to our supplication:
that you may grant us pardon for offences,
strength for our weak hearts, rest for aching bodies,
soothing the weary.
Though bodies slumber, hearts shall keep their vigil,
forever resting in the peace of Jesus,
in light or darkness worshipping our Saviour
now and forever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 105

Part I Confitemini Domino
Give thanks to the Lord and call upon the divine name; *
make known the deeds of the Lord among the peoples.
Sing to the Lord, sing praises, *
and speak of all the marvellous works of the Lord.
Glory in the holy name; *
let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice.
Search for the strength of the Lord; *
continually seek the face of God.
Remember the marvels the Lord has done, *
the wonders and the judgements of the mouth of the Lord,
O offspring of Abraham the servant of God, *
O children of Jacob the chosen of the Lord.
The Lord is our God, *
whose judgements prevail in all the world,
who has always been mindful of the covenant, *
the promise made for a thousand generations:
the covenant made with Abraham, *
the oath sworn to Isaac,
established as a statute for Jacob, *
an everlasting covenant for Israel,
saying, "To you will I give the land of Canaan *
to be your allotted inheritance."
When they were few in number, *
of little account, and sojourners in the land,
wandering from nation to nation *
and from one kingdom to another,
The Lord let no one oppress them *
and rebuked rulers for their sake,
saying, "Do not touch my anointed *
and do my prophets no harm."
Then God called for a famine in the land *
and destroyed the supply of bread.
The Lord sent a man before them, *
Joseph, who was sold as a slave
They bruised his feet in fetters; *
his neck they put in an iron collar.
Until his prediction came to pass, *
the word of the Lord tested him.
The king sent and released him; *
the ruler of the peoples set him free.
He set him as master over his household, *
as a ruler over all his possessions,
to instruct his princes according to his will *
and to teach his elders wisdom.
Part II Et intravit Israel
Israel came into Egypt, *
and Jacob became a sojourner in the land of Ham.
The Lord made this people exceedingly fruitful; *
making them stronger than their enemies;
whose heart God turned, so that they hated this people, *
and dealt unjustly with the servants of God.
O Lord, you sent Moses your servant, *
and Aaron whom you had chosen.
They worked your signs among them, *
and portents in the land of Ham.
You sent darkness, and it grew dark; *
but the Egyptians rebelled against your words.
You turned their waters into blood *
and caused their fish to die.
Their land was overrun by frogs, *
in the very chambers of their kings.
You spoke, and there came swarms of insects *
and gnats within all their borders.
You gave them hailstones instead of rain, *
and flames of fire throughout their land.
You blasted their vines and their fig trees *
and shattered every tree in their country.
You spoke, and the locust came, *
and young locusts without number,
which ate up all the green plants in their land *
and devoured the fruit of their soil.
You struck down the firstborn of their land, *
the first fruits of all their strength.
You led out your people with silver and gold; *
in all their tribes there was not one that stumbled.
Egypt was glad of their going, *
because they were afraid of them.
You spread out a cloud for a covering *
and a fire to give light in the night season.
They asked, and quails appeared, *
and you satisfied them with bread from heaven.
You opened the rock, and water flowed, *
so the river ran in the dry places.
For you, O God, remembered your holy word *
and Abraham your servant.
So you led forth your people with gladness, *
your chosen with shouts of joy.
You gave your people the lands of the nations, *
and they took the fruit of others' toil,
that they might keep your statutes *
and observe your laws. Hallelujah!

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 8:1-22]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
You are precious in my sight and I love you.
Do not fear, for I am with you.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 20:17-28]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “Great and Wonderful,” or “A Song of Christ’s Appearing” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

Great and Wonderful — Revelation 15:3, 4

Great and wonderful are your deeds, *
Lord God the Almighty.
Just and true are your ways, *
O ruler of the nations.
Who shall not revere and praise your name, O Lord? *
You alone are holy.
All nations shall come and worship in your presence; *
for your just dealings have been revealed.

or

A Song of Christ’s Appearing — 1 Timothy 3:16; 6:15a, 16

Christ Jesus was revealed in the flesh *
and vindicated in the spirit.
He was seen by angels *
and proclaimed among the nations.
Believed in throughout the world, *
he was taken up in glory.
This will be made manifest at the proper time *
by the blessed and only Sovereign,
who alone has immortality, *
and dwells in unapproachable light.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Send forth your strength, O God;
Establish what you have wrought in us.
Uphold all those who fall
And raise up those who are bowed down.
Open the eyes of the blind
And set the prisoners free.
Sustain the orphan and widowed
And give food to those who hunger.
Grant them the joy of your help again
And sustain them with your spirit.
Giver of peace, judge the peoples
And take all nations for your own.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-25]

Lord Jesus, stay with us, for evening is at hand and the day is past; be our companion in the way, kindle our hearts, and awaken hope, so that we may know you as you are revealed in scripture and the breaking of bread. Grant this for the sake of your love. Amen.

or

O God, the source of all good desires, all right judgements, and all just works: give to your servants that peace which the world cannot give; so that our hearts may be set to obey your commandments and, freed from the fear of our enemies, we may pass our time in rest and quietness; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who sends us to the nations, give us the power of the
Holy Spirit.
Amen.
