# generated-date: 2026-06-19

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

O Lord, I call to you; come to me quickly;
Hear my voice when I cry to you.
Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense,
The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

or

O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.
Hear our voice, O Lord, according to your faithful love,
According to your judgement give us life.

or

O God, be not far from us.
Come quickly to help us, O God.
Our God is full of compassion and mercy:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 91 — Qui habitat

Those who dwell in the shelter of the Most High, *
abide under the shadow of the Almighty.
They shall say to the Lord, "You are our refuge and our stronghold, *
our God in whom we put our trust."
The Lord shall deliver you from the snare of the hunter *
and from the deadly pestilence.
The wings of the Lord shall cover you,
and you shall find refuge under them; *
the faithfulness of God shall be a shield and buckler.
You shall not be afraid of any terror by night, *
nor of the arrow that flies by day;
of the plague that stalks in the darkness, *
nor of the sickness that lays waste at mid-day.
A thousand shall fall at your side and ten thousand at your side, *
but it shall not come near you.
Your eyes have only to behold *
to see the reward of the wicked.
Because you have made the Lord your refuge, *
and the Most High your habitation,
there shall no evil happen to you, *
neither shall any plague come near your dwelling.
For the angels of God shall have charge over you, *
to keep you in all your ways.
They shall bear you in their hands, *
lest you dash your foot against a stone.
You shall tread upon the lion and adder; *
you shall trample the young lion and the serpent under your feet.
"Because they are bound to me in love, *
therefore will I deliver them;
I will protect them, *
because they know my name.
They shall call upon me, *
and I will answer them;
I am with them in trouble; *
I will rescue them and bring them to honour.
With long life will I satisfy them, *
and show them my salvation."

Psalm 92 — Bonum est confiteri

It is a good thing to give thanks to the Lord, *
and to sing praises to your name, O Most High;
to tell of your loving-kindness early in the morning *
and of your faithfulness in the night season;
on the psaltery, and on the lyre, *
and to the melody of the harp.
For you have made me glad by your acts, O Lord; *
and I shout for joy because of the works of your hands.
Lord, how great are your works! *
Your thoughts are very deep.
The dullard does not know, *
nor does the fool understand, *
that though the wicked grow like weeds,
and all the workers of iniquity flourish, *
they flourish only to be destroyed for ever;
but you, O Lord, *
are exalted for evermore.
For lo, your enemies, O Lord, lo, your enemies shall perish, *
and all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.
But my horn you have exalted like the horns of wild bulls; *
I am anointed with fresh oil.
My eyes also gloat over my enemies, *
and my ears rejoice to hear the doom of the wicked
who rise up against me.
The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, *
and shall spread abroad like a cedar of Lebanon.
Those who are planted in the house of the Lord *
shall flourish in the courts of our God;
they shall still bear fruit in old age; *
they shall be green and succulent;
that they may show how upright the Lord is, *
my rock, in whom there is no fault.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 3:1-21]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Forsake me not, O Lord;
be not far from me, O my God.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.
Make haste to help me,
O Lord of my salvation.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.
In you, O Lord, have I fixed my hope;
you will answer me, O Lord my God.
Forsake me not, O Lord;
Be not far from me, O my God.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 18:21-35]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of the Justified,” or “A Song of Faith” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of the Justified — Romans 4:24, 25; 5:1–5, 11

God reckons as righteous those who believe, *
who believe in the one who raised Jesus from the dead.
For Christ was handed over to death for our sins *
and raised to life for our justification.
Since we are justified by faith, *
we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ.
Through Christ we have gained access
to the grace in which we stand, *
and rejoice in our hope of the glory of God.
We even exult in our sufferings, *
for suffering produces endurance,
and endurance brings hope, *
and our hope is not in vain.
Because God’s love has been poured into our hearts, *
through the Holy Spirit, given to us.
Therefore, we exult in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, *
in whom we have now received our reconciliation.

or

A Song of Faith — 1 Peter 1:3–5, 18, 19, 21

Blessed be the God and Father *
of our Lord Jesus Christ!
By God’s great mercy we have born anew to a living hope *
through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,
into an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, *
kept in heaven for you,
who are being protected by the power of God through faith, *
for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.
You were ransomed from the futile ways of your ancestors *
not with perishable things like silver or gold
but with the precious blood of Christ *
like that of a lamb without spot or stain.
Through him you have confidence in God,
who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, *
so that your faith and hope are set on God.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

God of compassion, answer us in the day of trouble,
Send us help from your holy place.
Show us the path of life,
For in your presence is joy.
Give justice to the orphaned and oppressed
And break the power of wickedness and evil.
Look upon the hungry and sorrowful
And grant them the help for which they long.
Let the heavens rejoice and the earth be glad;
May your glory endure for ever.
You have dominion over all
And with you is our redemption.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-19]

Lord Jesus Christ, by your death you took away the sting of death: grant to us your servants so to follow in faith where you have led the way, that we may at length fall asleep peacefully in you and wake up in your likeness; for your tender mercy’s sake. Amen.

or

Heal us, O God, from all our afflictions and keep us steadfast in your love; bind up our wounds, raise us from death, and lead us to fullness of life; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God our Redeemer show us compassion and love. Amen.
