# generated-date: 2026-06-16

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Lord, open our lips,
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Reveal among us the light of your presence
That we may behold your power and glory.

or

O God, let our mouth proclaim your praise
And your glory all the day long.
Our God and Saviour draws near:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 78

Part I Attendite, popule
Hear my teaching, O my people; *
incline your ears to the words of my mouth.
I will open my mouth in a parable; *
I will declare the mysteries of ancient times.
That which we have heard and known,
and what our ancestors have told us, *
we will not hide from their children.
We will recount to generations to come
the praiseworthy deeds and the power of the Lord, *
who has done wonderful works.
The Lord gave a decree to Jacob and established a law for Israel, *
commanding them to teach their children;
that the generations to come might know,
and the children yet unborn; *
that they in their turn might tell it to their children;
so that they might put their trust in God, *
and not forget those mighty deeds,
but keep the commandments;
and not be like their ancestors, *
a stubborn and rebellious generation,
a generation whose heart was not steadfast, *
and whose spirit was not faithful to God.
The people of Ephraim, armed with the bow, *
turned back in the day of battle;
they did not keep the covenant of God, *
and refused to walk in the law;
they forgot what God had done, *
and the wonders God had shown them.
God worked marvels in the sight of their ancestors, *
in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan,
splitting open the sea and letting them pass through, *
making the waters stand up like walls;
leading them with a cloud by day, *
and all the night through with the glow of fire;
splitting hard rocks in the wilderness, *
and giving them drink as from the great deep;
bringing streams out of the cliff, *
and the waters gushing out like rivers.
But they went on sinning against God, *
rebelling in the desert against the Most High.
They tested God in their hearts, *
demanding food for their craving.
They railed against God and said, *
"Can God set a table in the wilderness?
True, God struck the rock, the waters gushed out,
and the gullies overflowed; *
but is God able to give bread or to provide meat for this people?"
Hearing this, the Lord was full of wrath; *
a fire was kindled against Jacob,
and the divine anger mounted against Israel;
for they had no faith in God, *
nor did they put their trust in the saving power of God.
So God commanded the clouds above *
and opened the doors of heaven,
raining down manna upon them to eat *
and giving them grain from heaven.
So mortals ate the bread of angels; *
God provided for them food enough.
The Lord caused the east wind to blow in the heavens *
and powerfully led out the south wind,
raining down flesh upon them like dust *
and winged birds like the sand of the sea,
letting it fall in the midst of their camp *
and round about their dwellings.
So they ate and were well filled, *
for God gave them what they craved.
But they did not stop their craving, *
though the food was still in their mouths.
So the anger of God mounted against them; *
the Lord slew their strongest men and laid low the youth of Israel.
In spite of all this, they went on sinning *
and had no faith in the wonderful works of God.
So the Lord brought their days to an end like a breath *
and their years in sudden terror.
Whenever God slew them, they would seek the Lord, *
and repent and diligently search for God.
They would remember that God was their rock, *
and the Most High God their redeemer.
But they flattered God with their mouths *
and lied with their tongues.
Their heart was not steadfast *
nor were they faithful to the covenant.
But God, being merciful, forgave their sins and did not destroy them, *
holding back the divine anger
and not permitting wrath to be roused.
For the Lord remembered that they were but flesh, *
a breath that goes forth and does not return.
Part II Quoties exacerbaverunt
How often the people disobeyed God in the wilderness *
and offended in the desert!
Again and again they tempted God *
and provoked the Holy One of Israel.
They did not remember the power of God *
in the day when the Lord ransomed them from the enemy;
how God wrought signs in Egypt *
and omens in the field of Zoan,
turning their rivers into blood, *
so that they could not drink of their streams;
sending swarms of flies among them, which ate them up, *
and frogs, which destroyed them; *
giving their crops to the caterpillar, *
the fruit of their toil to the locust;
killing their vines with hail *
and their sycamores with frost;
delivering their cattle to hailstones *
and their livestock to hot thunderbolts.
God poured out upon them blazing anger: *
fury, indignation and distress, a troop of destroying angels.
Giving full rein to anger, God did not spare their souls from death, *
but delivered their lives to the plague,
striking down all the firstborn of Egypt, *
the flower of youth in the dwellings of Ham.
God led this people like sheep *
and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.
The Lord led them to safety, and they were not afraid; *
but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.
God brought them to the holy land, *
the mountain the strong hand of God had won.
God drove out the Canaanites before them
and apportioned an inheritance to them by lot, *
making the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.
But they tested and defied the Most High *
and did not keep the commandments.
They turned away and were disloyal like their ancestors; *
they were undependable like a warped bow.
They grieved God with their hill-altars *
and provoked displeasure with their idols.
Hearing this, God was angry *
and utterly rejected Israel;
forsaking the shrine at Shiloh, *
the tabernacle where God had lived among this people;
delivering the ark into captivity, *
the glory of God into the adversary's hand;
giving this people to the sword *
and becoming angry against the very inheritance of God.
The fire consumed their young men; *
there were no wedding songs for their young women.
Their priests fell by the sword, *
and their widows made no lamentation.
Then the Lord woke as though from sleep, *
like a warrior refreshed with wine,
striking the enemies of God on the backside *
and putting them to perpetual shame.
God rejected the tent of Joseph *
and did not choose the tribe of Ephraim;
choosing instead the tribe of Judah *
and Mount Zion, beloved by God,
where a sanctuary was built like the heights of heaven, *
like the everlasting earth.
God chose David as a servant *
and took him away from the sheepfolds,
bringing him from following the ewes, *
to be a shepherd over Jacob God's people
and over the inheritance of Israel.
So David shepherded them with a faithful and true heart *
and guided them with the skillfulness of God's hands.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Numbers 11:1-23]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Open my eyes, O Lord,
so that I may see the wonders of your law.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.
Lead me in the path of your commandments
for that is my desire.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.
Remember your word to your servant,
because you have given me hope.
Open my eyes, O Lord,
So that I may see the wonders of your law.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 1:16-25]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Peace,” or “A Song of God’s Chosen One” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Peace — Isaiah 2:3–5

Come, let us go up to the mountain of God, *
to the house of the God of Jacob;
so that God may teach us the divine ways, *
and so we may walk in those paths.
For the law shall go out from Zion, *
and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem.
God shall judge between the nations, *
and shall mediate for many peoples.
They shall beat their swords into ploughshares, *
and their spears into pruning hooks.
Nation shall not lift up sword against nation, *
neither shall they learn war any more.
O people of Jacob, come; *
let us walk in the light of the Lord.

or

A Song of God’s Chosen One — Isaiah 11:1, 2, 3b–4a, 6, 9

There shall come forth a shoot from the stock of Jesse, *
and a branch shall grow out of his roots.
And the Spirit of the Lord shall rest upon him, *
the spirit of wisdom and understanding,
the spirit of counsel and might, *
the spirit of knowledge and the fear of the Lord.
He shall not judge by what his eyes see, *
or decide by what his ears hear,
but with righteousness he shall judge the poor, *
and decide with equity for the meek of the earth.
The wolf shall dwell with the lamb, *
and the leopard shall lie down with the kid.
The calf, the lion and the fatling together, *
with a little child to lead them.
They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, *
for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord
as the waters cover the sea.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

God of Jacob, may all who call themselves Christians
become a priestly people to the praise of Christ Jesus our Saviour.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
May N our bishop and all bishops and other ministers
remain faithful to their calling and rightly proclaim the word of truth.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
May Charles our King, the leaders of the nations, and all in authority
lead their peoples into quiet and peaceable lives.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
Show your good will to all who live in this city, the poor and the rich,
the elderly and the young, men and women.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
Help and defend the victims of our society
and those who minister to them.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
Strengthen the faith of those who are preparing for baptism
and of those who have been recently baptized.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.
Count us among all your faithful witnesses:
all the saints who have found favour in your sight from earliest times,
prophets, apostles, martyrs, and those whose names are known to
you alone.
God of compassion, teach us your ways.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-16]

Heavenly Father, in you we live and move and have our being. Guide and govern us by your Holy Spirit, so that in all the cares and occupations of our life we may not forget you, but may remember that we are ever walking in your sight; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
Amen.

or

Eternal God and Father, you create and redeem us by the power of your love: guide and strengthen us by your Spirit, so that we may give ourselves in love and service to one another and to you; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May the Lord find us watching and waiting for Christ’s coming.
Amen.
