# generated-date: 2026-06-25

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Lord, open our lips,
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Your light springs up for the righteous
And all peoples have seen your glory.

or

O God, let our mouth proclaim your praise
And your glory all the day long.
Christ has shown forth his glory:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 105

Part I Confitemini Domino
Give thanks to the Lord and call upon the divine name; *
make known the deeds of the Lord among the peoples.
Sing to the Lord, sing praises, *
and speak of all the marvellous works of the Lord.
Glory in the holy name; *
let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice.
Search for the strength of the Lord; *
continually seek the face of God.
Remember the marvels the Lord has done, *
the wonders and the judgements of the mouth of the Lord,
O offspring of Abraham the servant of God, *
O children of Jacob the chosen of the Lord.
The Lord is our God, *
whose judgements prevail in all the world,
who has always been mindful of the covenant, *
the promise made for a thousand generations:
the covenant made with Abraham, *
the oath sworn to Isaac,
established as a statute for Jacob, *
an everlasting covenant for Israel,
saying, "To you will I give the land of Canaan *
to be your allotted inheritance."
When they were few in number, *
of little account, and sojourners in the land,
wandering from nation to nation *
and from one kingdom to another,
The Lord let no one oppress them *
and rebuked rulers for their sake,
saying, "Do not touch my anointed *
and do my prophets no harm."
Then God called for a famine in the land *
and destroyed the supply of bread.
The Lord sent a man before them, *
Joseph, who was sold as a slave
They bruised his feet in fetters; *
his neck they put in an iron collar.
Until his prediction came to pass, *
the word of the Lord tested him.
The king sent and released him; *
the ruler of the peoples set him free.
He set him as master over his household, *
as a ruler over all his possessions,
to instruct his princes according to his will *
and to teach his elders wisdom.
Part II Et intravit Israel
Israel came into Egypt, *
and Jacob became a sojourner in the land of Ham.
The Lord made this people exceedingly fruitful; *
making them stronger than their enemies;
whose heart God turned, so that they hated this people, *
and dealt unjustly with the servants of God.
O Lord, you sent Moses your servant, *
and Aaron whom you had chosen.
They worked your signs among them, *
and portents in the land of Ham.
You sent darkness, and it grew dark; *
but the Egyptians rebelled against your words.
You turned their waters into blood *
and caused their fish to die.
Their land was overrun by frogs, *
in the very chambers of their kings.
You spoke, and there came swarms of insects *
and gnats within all their borders.
You gave them hailstones instead of rain, *
and flames of fire throughout their land.
You blasted their vines and their fig trees *
and shattered every tree in their country.
You spoke, and the locust came, *
and young locusts without number,
which ate up all the green plants in their land *
and devoured the fruit of their soil.
You struck down the firstborn of their land, *
the first fruits of all their strength.
You led out your people with silver and gold; *
in all their tribes there was not one that stumbled.
Egypt was glad of their going, *
because they were afraid of them.
You spread out a cloud for a covering *
and a fire to give light in the night season.
They asked, and quails appeared, *
and you satisfied them with bread from heaven.
You opened the rock, and water flowed, *
so the river ran in the dry places.
For you, O God, remembered your holy word *
and Abraham your servant.
So you led forth your people with gladness, *
your chosen with shouts of joy.
You gave your people the lands of the nations, *
and they took the fruit of others' toil,
that they might keep your statutes *
and observe your laws. Hallelujah!

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Numbers 17:1-11]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
When you pass through the waters, I will be with you.
When you walk through fire, you shall not be burned.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.
You are precious in my sight and I love you.
Do not fear, for I am with you.
Fear not, for I have redeemed you.
I have called you by name; you are mine.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 5:1-11]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of the Covenant,” or “A Song of Tobit” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of the Covenant — Isaiah 42:5–8a

Thus says God, who created the heavens, *
who fashioned the earth and all that dwells in it;
who gives breath to the people upon it *
and spirit to those who walk in it,
”I am the Lord and I have called you in righteousness, *
I have taken you by the hand and kept you;
I have given you as a covenant to the people, *
a light to the nations, to open the eyes that are blind,
to bring out the captives from the dungeon, *
from the prison, those who sit in darkness.
I am the Lord, that is my name; *
my glory I give to no other.”

or

A Song of Tobit — Tobit 13:1, 3, 4, 6a

Blessed be God, who lives for ever, *
whose reign endures throughout all ages.
Declare God’s praise before the nations, *
you who are the children of Israel.
For if our God has scattered you among them, *
there too has the Lord shown you the divine greatness.
Exalt God in the sight of the living, *
because the Holy One is our Lord and God for ever.
God will gather you from every nation, *
from wherever you have been scattered.
See what the Lord has done for you *
and give thanks with a loud voice.
Praise the Lord of righteousness *
and exalt the Sovereign of the ages.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Creator of the heavens, lead all peoples into a common life
of justice, faith, and peace:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.
Inspire the King, the Governor General, the Prime Minister,
and all in authority to serve the people of this country
according to your holy will:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.
Guide the growth and development of all children and young people:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.
Deliver and keep the sick in your love:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.
Support and keep steadfast all who for the sake of justice and truth
have been condemned to exile, prison, harsh treatment, or hard labour:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.
Direct our lives in the same spirit of service and sacrifice
as shown by the prophets, apostles, martyrs,
and all who have borne witness to the gospel:
Giver of breath, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-25]

Creator of the universe, the light of your glory shines in the darkness of our lives. Make us attentive to your presence, prompt to serve you and ever eager to follow in the steps of the one who is our true light, Jesus Christ your Son our Lord. Amen.

or

O God, the author of peace and lover of concord, to know you is eternal life, to serve you is perfect freedom. Defend us your servants from all assaults of our enemies; so that we, surely trusting in your defence, may not fear the power of any adversaries; through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who sends us to the nations, give us the power of the
Holy Spirit.
Amen.
