# generated-date: 2026-06-17

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

O Lord, I call to you; come to me quickly;
Hear my voice when I cry to you.
Let my prayer be set forth in your sight as incense,
The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

or

O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.
Reveal among us the light of your presence,
So that we may behold your power and glory.

or

O God, be not far from us.
Come quickly to help us, O God.
The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The evening hymn: “o Light, Whose splendour thrills”

O Light, whose splendour thrills and gladdens
with radiance brighter than the sun,
pure gleam of God’s unending glory,
O Jesus, blest Anointed One;
as twilight hovers near at sunset,
and lamps are lit, and children nod,
in evening hymns we lift our voices
to Author, Spirit, Word: one God.
In all life’s brilliant, timeless moments,
let faithful voices sing your praise,
O Word of God, our life-bestower,
whose glory lightens endless days.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 81 — Exultate Deo

Sing with joy to God our strength *
and raise a loud shout to the God of Jacob.
Raise a song and sound the timbrel, *
the merry harp, and the lyre.
Blow the ram's-horn at the new moon, *
and at the full moon, the day of our feast.
For this is a statute for Israel, *
a law of the God of Jacob,
who laid it as a solemn charge upon Joseph, *
when they came out of the land of Egypt.
I heard an unfamiliar voice saying, *
"I eased their shoulders from the burden;
their hands were set free from bearing the load.
You called on me in trouble, and I saved you; *
I answered you from the secret place of thunder
and tested you at the waters of Meribah.
Hear, O my people, and I will admonish you: *
O Israel, if you would but listen to me!
There shall be no strange god among you; *
you shall not worship a foreign god.
I am the Lord your God,
who brought you out of the land of Egypt and said, *
'Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it.'
And yet my people did not hear my voice, *
and Israel would not obey me.
So I gave them over to the stubbornness of their hearts, *
to follow their own devices.
Oh, that my people would listen to me! *
That Israel would walk in my ways!
I should soon subdue their enemies *
and turn my hand against their foes.
Those who hate the Lord would cringe before me, *
and their punishment would last for ever.
But Israel would I feed with the finest wheat *
and satisfy them with honey from the rock."

Psalm 82 — Deus stetit

God stands in the council of heaven *
and gives judgement in the midst of the gods:
"How long will you judge unjustly, *
and show favour to the wicked?
Save the weak and the orphan; *
defend the humble and needy;
Rescue the weak and the poor; *
deliver them from the power of the wicked.
They do not know, neither do they understand;
they go about in darkness; *
all the foundations of the earth are shaken.
Now I say to you, 'You are gods, *
and all of you children of the Most High;
nevertheless, you shall die like mortals, *
and fall like any prince.'"
Arise, O God, and rule the earth, *
for you shall take all nations for your own.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Samuel 2:12-26]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
and afterwards receive me with glory.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.
For I am always with you;
you hold me by my hand.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.
I will speak of all your works
in the gates of the city of Zion.
Lord, you will guide me with your counsel
And afterwards receive me with glory.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Matthew 18:1-9]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of Praise,” or “A Song of Christ’s Glory” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of Praise — Revelation 4:11; 5:9b, 10

You are worthy, our Lord and God, *
to receive glory and honour and power.
For you have created all things, *
and by your will they have their being.
You are worthy, O Lamb, for you were slain, *
and by your blood you ransomed for God
saints from every tribe and language and nation.
You have made them a priestly people serving our God, *
and they will reign with you on earth.

or

A Song of Christ’s Glory — Philippians 2:5–11

Christ Jesus was in the form of God, *
but he did not cling to equality with God.
He emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, *
and was born in our human likeness.
Being found in human form he humbled himself, *
and became obedient unto death, even death on a cross.
Therefore God has highly exalted him, *
and bestowed on him the name above every name,
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, *
in heaven and on earth and under the earth;
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, *
to the glory of God the Father.

(After the Canticle of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

Creator of all, open a path for your Word
To declare the mystery of Christ.
Turn now, O God of hosts;
Behold and tend the vine you have planted.
May your people rejoice and sing,
And your ministers be clothed with salvation.
May they stand and feed your flock
In the strength of your name.
Keep from trouble all those who trust in you
And forget not the poor forever.
Have mercy upon us,
As we have put our hope in you.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-17]

O God, the life of all who live, the light of the faithful, the strength of those who labour, and the repose of the dead: We thank you for the blessings of the day that is past and humbly ask for your protection through the coming night. Bring us in safety to the morning hours; through him who died and rose again for us, your Son our Saviour Jesus Christ. Amen.

or

Eternal Lord, our beginning and our end: bring us with the whole creation to your glory, hidden through past ages and made known in Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May God, who has called us out of darkness into the marvellous light
of Christ, bless us and fill us with peace. Amen.
