# generated-date: 2026-06-20

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Lord, open our lips,
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
O God, make speed to save us.
O Lord, make haste to help us.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Your faithful servants bless you.
They make known the glory of your reign.

or

O God, let our mouth proclaim your praise
And your glory all the day long.
Our God is glorious in all the saints:
O come let us worship.

(One of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.
Alleluia.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 87 — Fundamenta ejus

On the holy mountain *
stands the city God has founded;
the Lord loves the gates of Zion
more than all the dwellings of Jacob.
Glorious things are spoken of you, *
O city of our God.
I count Egypt and Babylon among those who know me; *
behold Philistia, Tyre, and Ethiopia: in Zion were they born.
Of Zion it shall be said, "Everyone was born in there, *
and the Most High shall sustain it."
The Lord will record as the peoples are enrolled, *
"These also were born there."
The singers and the dancers will say, *
"All my fresh springs are in you."

Psalm 90 — Domine, refugium

Lord, you have been our refuge *
from one generation to another.
Before the mountains were brought forth, or the land and the earth were
born, *
from age to age you are God.
You turn us back to the dust and say, *
"Go back, O child of earth."
For a thousand years in your sight are like yesterday when it is past *
and like a watch in the night.
You sweep us away like a dream; *
we fade away suddenly like the grass.
In the morning it is green and flourishes; *
in the evening it is dried up and withered.
For we consume away in your displeasure; *
we are afraid because of your wrathful indignation.
Our iniquities you have set before you, *
and our secret sins in the light of your countenance.
When you are angry, all our days are gone; *
we bring our years to an end like a sigh.
The span of our life is seventy years, perhaps in strength even eighty; *
yet the sum of them is but labour and sorrow,
for they pass away quickly and we are gone.
Who regards the power of your wrath? *
Who rightly fears your indignation?
So teach us to number our days *
that we may apply our hearts to wisdom.
Return, O Lord; how long will you tarry? *
Be gracious to your servants.
Satisfy us by your loving-kindness in the morning; *
so shall we rejoice and be glad all the days of our life.
Make us glad by the measure of the days that you afflicted us *
and the years in which we suffered adversity.
Show your servants your works *
and your splendour to their children.
May the graciousness of the Lord our God be upon us; *
prosper the work of our hands; prosper our handiwork.

(After the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Numbers 13:31—14:25]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Your salvation is near to those who fear you;
that glory may dwell in our land.
Your salvation is near to those who fear you;
That glory may dwell in our land.
Mercy and truth have met together;
righteousness and peace have kissed each other.
Your salvation is near to those who fear you;
That glory may dwell in our land.
You are speaking peace to your faithful people
and to those who turn their hearts to you.
Your salvation is near to those who fear you;
That glory may dwell in our land.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Romans 3:9-20]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy wisdom, holy word.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Jerusalem Our Mother,” or “A Song of Pilgrimage” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Jerusalem Our Mother — Isaiah 66:10, 11a, 12a, 12c, 13a, 14a, 14b

“Rejoice in Jerusalem and be glad for her, *
all you who love her,” says the Lord.
“Rejoice with her in joy, *
all you who mourn over her,
that you may drink deeply with delight *
from her consoling breast.”
For thus says our God, *
“You shall be nursed and carried on her arm.
As a mother comforts her children, *
so I will comfort you;
You shall see and your heart shall rejoice; *
you shall flourish like the grass of the fields.”

or

A Song of Pilgrimage — Ecclesiasticus 51:13a, 13c–17, 20, 21a, 22b

While I was still young, *
I sought Wisdom openly in my prayer:
before the temple I asked for her, *
and I will search for her until the end.
From the first blossom to the ripening grape, *
my heart delighted in her.
My foot walked on the straight path, *
from my youth I followed her steps.
I inclined my ear a little and received her, *
I found for myself much instruction.
I made progress in Wisdom; *
to the One who sent her, I will give glory.
I directed my soul to Wisdom, *
and in purity have I found her.
With her, I gained understanding from the first, *
therefore I will never be forsaken.
My heart was stirred to seek her, *
with my tongue will I sing God’s praise.

(After the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

(The community may offer its intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings silently or aloud.)

The Litany

God of Jerusalem, send the riches of your grace
upon the Church throughout the world.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.
Fill all who proclaim the word of truth with the infinite wisdom of
Christ.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.
Inspire all who have consecrated their lives to your reign
and all who are struggling to follow the way of Christ with the gifts
of the Spirit.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.
Strengthen Charles our King, the Prime Minister, and all who govern
the nations,
so that they strive for justice and peace.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.
Enlighten scholars and research workers,
so that their studies may benefit humanity.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.
Give your peace to all who have passed from this life in faith and
obedience.
Creator of all, carry us in your arms.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-06-20]

Lord God, the wellspring of life, pour into our hearts the living water of your grace. By your light we see light. Increase our faith, and grant that we may walk in the brightness of your presence; through Jesus Christ our Saviour. Amen.

or

Grant, Lord, that we who are baptized into the death of your Son our Saviour Jesus Christ may continually put to death our evil desires and be buried with him; and that through the grave and gate of death we may pass to our joyful resurrection; through his merits, who died and was buried and rose again for us, your Son Jesus Christ our hope.
Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who has opened the gates of heaven, bring us to reign
with him in glory. Amen.
