# generated-date: 2026-03-29

From the Fifth Sunday in

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, God of our salvation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
As we behold your Son, enthroned on the cross,
stir up in us the fire of your love,
so that we may be cleansed from all our sins
and walk with you in newness of life,
singing the praises of him who died
for us and for our salvation.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 103 — Benedic, anima mea

Bless the Lord, O my soul, *
and all that is within me, bless God's holy name.
Bless the Lord, O my soul, *
and forget not all the benefits of the Lord.
The Lord forgives all your sins *
and heals all your infirmities;
redeeming your life from the grave *
and crowning you with mercy and loving-kindness;
satisfying you with good things, *
and renewing your youth like an eagle's.
The Lord executes righteousness *
and judgement for all who are oppressed.
O Lord, you made your ways known to Moses *
and your works to the children of Israel.
You are full of compassion and mercy, *
slow to anger and of great kindness.
You will not always accuse us, *
nor will you keep your anger for ever.
You have not dealt with us according to our sins, *
nor rewarded us according to our wickedness.
For as the heavens are high above the earth, *
so is your mercy great upon those who fear you.
As far as the east is from the west, *
so far have you removed our sins from us.
As parents care for their children, *
so do you, O Lord, care for those who fear you.
For you yourself know whereof we are made; *
you remember that we are but dust.
Our days are like the grass; *
we flourish like a flower of the field;
when the wind goes over it, it is gone, *
and its place shall know it no more.
But your merciful goodness endures for ever on those who fear you, *
and your righteousness on children's children;
on those who keep the covenant *
and remember the commandments and do them.
The Lord is enthroned in heaven, *
and has dominion over all.
Bless the Lord, you angels,
you mighty ones who do the bidding of God, *
and hearken to the voice of the word of the Lord.
Bless the Lord, all you hosts, *
you ministers who do the will of God.
Bless the Lord, all you works of the Lord,
in all places of the dominion of the Lord; *
bless the Lord, O my soul.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Zechariah 12:9-11, 13:1, 7-9]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you;
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.
God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong.
We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you.
We preach Christ crucified,
the power of God and the wisdom of God.
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.
God forbid that I should glory,
save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you;
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Luke 19:41-48]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “The Song of Christ’s Glory,” or “A Song of Christ the Servant” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

Song of Christ’s Glory — Philippians 2:5–11

Christ Jesus was in the form of God, *
but he did not cling to equality with God.
He emptied himself, taking the form of a servant *
and was born in human likeness.
Being found in human form he humbled himself *
and became obedient unto death,
even death on a cross.
Therefore God has highly exalted him *
and bestowed on him the name above every name,
that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, *
in heaven and on earth and under the earth;
and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord *
to the glory of God the Father.

or

A Song of Christ the Servant — 1 Peter 2:21b–25

Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example, *
that you should follow in his steps.
He committed no sin, no guile was found on his lips, *
when he was reviled, he did not revile in turn.
When he suffered, he did not threaten, *
but he trusted himself to God who judges justly.
Christ himself bore our sins in his body on the tree, *
so that we might die to sin and live to righteousness.
By his wounds, you have been healed, *
for you were straying like sheep,
but now have returned *
to the shepherd and guardian of your souls.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us offer our praises and prayers
to the one who intercedes for us, saying,
“Lamb of God, we praise you.”
Lord Jesus, you embraced the cross
so that we might learn to give our lives for the sake of love:
Lamb of God, we praise you.
Innocent captive,
you submitted to the judgement of sinners:
Lamb of God, we praise you.
In the hour of death you heard the penitent thief
and opened to him the door of paradise:
Lamb of God, we praise you.
Most merciful Saviour,
you have known the pain of abandonment:
Lamb of God, we praise you.
Lord, you love all whom God has made
and gave up your own self for them:
Lamb of God, we praise you.
Through your self-offering
you have brought the crown of life to all people:
Lamb of God, we praise you.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-03-29]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of suffering and glory, in Jesus Christ you reveal the way of life through the path of obedience. Inscribe your law in our hearts, so that in life we may not stray from you but may be your people. Amen.

(Palm/Passion Sunday to Good Friday)

Sovereign God, you have established your rule over the human heart, not by force but by the servant example of Jesus Christ. Move us by your Spirit to join the joyful procession of those who confess Christ Jesus with their tongues and praise him with their lives. Amen.

(Good Friday to Easter Vigil)

Compassionate God, your love finds full expression in the gift of Jesus Christ your Son, who willingly met betrayal and death to set us free from sin. Give us courage to live obediently in these days until we greet the glory of our risen Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Standing at the foot of the cross
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who bore our sins on the cross, set us free to serve with
him in joy. Amen.
