# generated-date: 2026-03-29

From the Fifth Sunday in

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Christ became obedient unto death for us,
Even death upon a cross.
He was pierced for our sins,
Bruised for no fault but ours
His punishment has won our peace,
And by his wounds we are healed.
Worthy is the Lamb that was slain
To receive power and riches and wisdom,
Strength, honour, glory, and praise. Amen.

or

O Lord, open our lips
And our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Let your ways be known upon earth,
Your saving help among the nations.
Blessed are you, God of our salvation,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
Full of sorrows and acquainted with grief,
Christ was lifted up
so that he might draw the whole world to himself.
May we walk this day in the way of the cross
and always be ready to share its weight,
declaring your love for all the world.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 24 — Domini est terra

The earth is the Lord's and all that is in it, *
the world and all who dwell therein.
For it is God who founded it upon the seas *
and made it firm upon the rivers of the deep.
"Who can ascend the hill of the Lord *
and who can stand in the holy place of God?"
"Those who have clean hands and a pure heart, *
who have not pledged themselves to falsehood,
nor sworn by what is a fraud.
They shall receive a blessing from the Lord *
and a just reward from the God of their salvation."
Such is the generation of those who seek you, *
of those who seek your face, O God of Jacob.
Lift up your heads, O gates;
lift them high, O everlasting doors; *
and the One who reigns in glory shall come in.
"Who is this glorious One?"*
"The Lord, strong and mighty,
the Lord, mighty in battle."
Lift up your heads, O gates;
lift them high, O everlasting doors; *
and the One who reigns in glory shall come in.
"Who is this glorious One?"*
"The Lord of hosts,
the Lord who reigns in glory."

Psalm 29 — Afferte Domino

Ascribe to the Lord, you gods, *
ascribe to the Lord glory and strength.
Ascribe to the Lord the glory due the divine name; *
worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.
The voice of the Lord is upon the waters;
the God of glory thunders; *
the Lord is upon the mighty waters.
The voice of the Lord is a powerful voice; *
the voice of the Lord is a voice of splendour.
The voice of the Lord breaks the cedar trees; *
the Lord breaks the cedars of Lebanon,
and makes Lebanon skip like a calf, *
and Mount Hermon like a young wild ox.
The voice of the Lord *
splits the flames of fire;
the voice of the Lord shakes the wilderness; *
the Lord shakes the wilderness of Kadesh.
The voice of the Lord makes the oak trees writhe *
and strips the forests bare.
And in the temple of the Lord *
all are crying, "Glory!"
The Lord sits enthroned above the flood; *
the Lord sits enthroned as sovereign for evermore.
The Lord shall give strength to this people; *
the Lord shall give this people the blessing of peace.

(At the end of the Psalm one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Zechariah 9:9-12]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you;
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.
God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong.
We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you.
We preach Christ crucified,
the power of God and the wisdom of God.
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.
God forbid that we should glory,
save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ.
We adore you, O Christ, and we bless you;
By your holy cross, you have redeemed the world.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: 1 Timothy 6:12-16]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Jonah,” or “The Prayer of Habakkuk” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Jonah — Jonah 2:2–7, 9

I called to you, O God, out of my distress *
and you answered me;
out of the belly of Sheol I cried, *
and you heard my voice.
You cast me into the deep, *
into the heart of the seas,
and the flood surrounded me, *
all your waves and billows passed over me.
Then I said, I am driven away from your sight: *
how shall I ever look again upon your holy temple?
The waters closed in over me, *
the deep was round about me;
weeds were wrapped around my head *
at the roots of the mountains.
I went down to the land whose bars closed on me for ever, *
yet you brought up my life from the depths, O God.
As my life was ebbing away, I remembered you, O God, *
and my prayer came to you, into your holy temple
With the voice of thanksgiving, I will sacrifice to you; *
what I have vowed I will pay:
deliverance belongs to the Lord!

or

Prayer of Habakkuk — Habakkuk 3:2, 13a, 15–16, 17–19

O Lord, I have heard of your renown, *
and I stand in awe, O Lord, of your work.
In the midst of the years renew it;
in the midst of the years make it known; *
in wrath remember mercy.
You came forth to save your people, *
to save your anointed.
You trampled the sea with your horses, *
churning the mighty waters.
I hear, and my belly trembles, *
my lips quiver at the sound.
Though the fig tree does not blossom,
nor fruit appear on the vines, *
the produce of the olive fail,
and the fields yield no food,
though the flock be cut off from the fold *
and there be no herd in the stalls,
yet will I rejoice in the Lord, *
I will exult in the God of my salvation.
God, the Lord, is my strength, *
who makes my feet like hinds’ feet,
and who makes me tread upon the high places.

(At the end of the Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

With faith and love and in union with Christ,
let us offer our prayers before the throne of grace, saying,
“God of the deep, hear our prayer.”
Have mercy on your people,
for whom your Son laid down his life.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.
Bring healing and wholeness to people and nations,
and have pity on those torn apart by division.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.
Strengthen all who are persecuted for your name’s sake,
and deliver them from evil.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.
Look in mercy upon all who suffer,
and hear those who cry out in pain and desolation.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.
Bring comfort to the dying,
and gladden their hearts with the vision of your glory.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.
Give rest to the departed
and bring them, with your saints, to glory everlasting.
God of the deep, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-03-29]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

God of suffering and glory, in Jesus Christ you reveal the way of life through the path of obedience. Inscribe your law in our hearts, so that in life we may not stray from you but may be your people. Amen.

(Palm/Passion Sunday to Good Friday)

Sovereign God, you have established your rule over the human heart, not by force but by the servant example of Jesus Christ. Move us by your Spirit to join the joyful procession of those who confess Christ Jesus with their tongues and praise him with their lives. Amen.

(Good Friday to Easter Vigil)

Compassionate God, your love finds full expression in the gift of Jesus Christ your Son, who willingly met betrayal and death to set us free from sin. Give us courage to live obediently in these days until we greet the glory of our risen Saviour. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Standing at the foot of the cross
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May Christ, who bore our sins on the cross, set us free to serve with
him in joy. Amen.
