# generated-date: 2026-05-24

From Ascension through Trinity Sunday

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Your love, O God, has been poured into our hearts.
We abide in you and you in us.
We will give thanks to you and call upon your name;
We will make known your deeds among the peoples.
We raise our songs of praise to you
and speak of all your marvellous works.
You alone are the Holy One,
who was and is and is to come!

or

O Lord, open our lips
and our mouth shall proclaim your praise.
Send your Holy Spirit upon us,
and clothe us with power from on high. Alleluia.
Blessed are you, creator God,
to you be praise and glory for ever.
As your Spirit moved over the face of the waters
bringing light and life to your creation,
pour out your Spirit on us today
so that we may walk as children of light
and by your grace reveal your presence.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 118 — Confitemini Domino

Give thanks to the Lord who is good; *
the mercy of the Lord endures for ever.
Let Israel now proclaim, *
"The mercy of the Lord endures for ever."
Let the house of Aaron now proclaim, *
" The mercy of the Lord endures for ever."
Let those who fear the Lord now proclaim, *
" The mercy of the Lord endures for ever."
I called to the Lord in my distress; *
who answered by setting me free.
The Lord is at my side, therefore I will not fear; *
what can anyone do to me?
The Lord is at my side to help me; *
I will triumph over those who hate me.
It is better to rely on the Lord *
than to put any trust in flesh.
It is better to rely on the Lord *
than to put any trust in rulers.
All the ungodly encompass me; *
in the name of the Lord I will repel them.
They hem me in, they hem me in on every side; *
in the name of the Lord I will repel them.
They swarm about me like bees;
they blaze like a fire of thorns; *
in the name of the Lord I will repel them.
I was pressed so hard that I almost fell, *
but the Lord came to my help.
The Lord is my strength and my song, *
and has become my salvation.
There is a sound of exultation and victory *
in the tents of the righteous:
"The mighty hand of the Lord has triumphed! *
the mighty hand of the Lord is exalted!
the mighty hand of the Lord has triumphed!"
I shall not die, but live, *
and declare the works of the Lord.
The Lord has punished me sorely, *
but did not hand me over to death.
Open for me the gates of righteousness; *
I will enter them;
I will offer thanks to the Lord.
"This is the gate of the Lord; *
those who are righteous may enter."
I will give thanks to the Lord who answered me *
and has become my salvation.
The same stone which the builders rejected *
has become the chief cornerstone.
This is the Lord's doing, *
and it is marvellous in our eyes.
On this day the Lord has acted; *
we will rejoice and be glad in it.
Hosannah, Lord, hosannah! *
Lord, send us now success.
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord; *
we bless you from the house of the Lord.
God is the Lord and has shined upon us; *
form a procession with branches up to the horns of the altar.
"You are my God, and I will thank you; *
you are my God, and I will exalt you."
Give thanks to the Lord who is good; *
the mercy of the Lord endures for ever.

(At the end of the Psalm(s) one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Deuteronomy 16:9-12]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your people
And kindle in us the fire of your love.
All who are led by the Spirit of God
are children of God and fellow-heirs with Christ.
Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your people.
Renew the face of your creation, Creator of all,
and pour on us the gifts of your Spirit,
And kindle in us the fire of your love.
For the creation waits with eager longing
for the glorious liberty of the children of God.
Come, Holy Spirit, fill the hearts of your people
And kindle in us the fire of your love.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Acts 4:18-21, 23-33]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Zechariah,” “A Song of Ezekiel,” or “A Song of Judith” may be said or sung.)

Song of Zechariah — Luke 1:68–79

Blessed are you, Lord, the God of Israel, *
you have come to your people and set them free.
You have raised up for us a mighty Saviour, *
born of the house of your servant David.
Through your holy prophets, *
you promised of old to save us from our enemies,
from the hands of all who hate us, *
to show mercy to our forebears,
and to remember your holy covenant.
This was the oath you swore to our Father Abraham: *
to set us free from the hands of our enemies,
free to worship you without fear, *
holy and righteous before you, all the days of our life.
And you, child, shall be called the prophet of the Most High, *
for you will go before the Lord to prepare the way,
to give God’s people knowledge of salvation *
by the forgiveness of their sins.
In the tender compassion of our God *
the dawn from on high shall break upon us,
to shine on those who dwell in darkness and the shadow of death, *
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

or

A Song of Ezekiel — Ezekiel 36:24–26, 28b

I will take you from the nations, *
and gather you from all the countries.
I will sprinkle clean water upon you, *
and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses.
A new heart I will give you, *
and put a new spirit within you.
And I will remove from your body the heart of stone *
and give you a heart of flesh.
You shall be my people, *
and I will be your God.

or

A Song of Judith — Judith 16:13–16

I will sing a new song to my God, *
for you are great and glorious,
truly strong and invincible.
May your whole creation serve you, *
for you spoke and all things came to be.
You sent forth your Spirit and they were formed, *
for no one can resist your voice.
Mountains and seas are stirred to their depths; *
at your presence rocks shall melt like wax.
But to those who fear you, *
you continue to show mercy.
No sacrifice, however fragrant, can please you, *
but whoever fears you
shall stand in your sight for ever.

(At the end of either Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us offer our intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings, saying,
“God of the prophets, hear our prayer.”
Lift up our hearts to the heavenly places
and inspire us to serve you as a royal priesthood.
God of the prophets, hear our prayer.
Let all peoples acknowledge your reign of justice and peace
and grant on earth the blessing of peace.
God of the prophets, hear our prayer.
Send down upon us the gift of the Spirit
and renew your Church with power from on high.
God of the prophets, hear our prayer.
May peace abound and righteousness flourish,
so that we may vanquish injustice and wrong.
God of the prophets, hear our prayer.
Help us to proclaim the good news of salvation,
and grant us the needful gifts of your grace.
God of the prophets, hear our prayer.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-05-24]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Risen and ascended Christ, you surround us with witnesses and send us the Counsellor who opens our minds to understand your teaching. Bless us with such grace so that our lives may become a blessing for the world now, and in the age to come. Amen.

(Sunday after Ascension to Pentecost)

God of boundless grace, you call us to drink freely of the well of life and to share the love of your holy being. May the glory of your love, made known in the victory of Jesus Christ, our Saviour, transform our lives and the world he lived and died to save. We ask this in his name and for his sake. Amen.

(Pentecost to Trinity Sunday)

Holy God, you spoke the world into being. Pour your Spirit to the ends of the earth, so that your children may return from exile as citizens of your commonwealth, and our divisions may be healed by your word of love and righteousness. Amen.

(The Week of Trinity Sunday)

God of delight, your Wisdom sings your Word at the crossroads where humanity and divinity meet. Invite us into your joyful being where you know and are known in each beginning, in all sustenance, in every redemption, so that we may manifest your unity in the diverse ministries your entrust to us, truly reflecting your triune majesty in the faith that acts, in the hope that does not disappoint, and in the love that endures. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Being made one by the power of the Spirit
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord. Alleluia. Alleluia.
Thanks be to God. Alleluia. Alleluia.
May the Spirit kindle in us the fire of God’s love. Amen.
