# generated-date: 2026-05-24

From Ascension to the

The Gathering of the Community

Introductory Responses

Light and peace in Jesus Christ our hope.
Thanks be to God.

or

Jesus Christ is the light of the world.
A light no darkness can extinguish.

Thanksgiving for Light

Let us give thanks to God our Creator.
It is right to offer thanks and praise.

or

Let us give thanks to the Lord our God.
It is right to give our thanks and praise.

Blessed are you, Lord God of all creation,
to you be glory and praise for ever.
Raised to your side in honour on high,
the ascended Christ shows the prints of love
and bestows on us the gifts of grace.
As your Spirit renews the face of the earth,
may we bring forth the fruit of the Spirit
and reveal your glory in all the world.
Blessed be God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be God: Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit.
Blessed be God for ever.

or

Blessed be the holy and undivided Trinity, one God.
Blessed be God for ever.

The Proclamation of the Word

The Psalm

(A Psalm from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is said or sung.)

Psalm 145 — Exaltabo te, Deus

I will exalt you, O God my sovereign, *
and bless your name for ever and ever.
Every day will I bless you *
and praise your name for ever and ever.
Great are you, O Lord, and greatly to be praised; *
there is no end to your greatness.
One generation shall praise your works to another *
and shall declare your power.
I will ponder the glorious splendour of your majesty *
and all your marvellous works.
They shall speak of the might of your wondrous acts, *
and I will tell of your greatness.
They shall publish the remembrance of your great goodness; *
they shall sing of your righteous deeds.
O Lord, you are gracious and full of compassion, *
slow to anger and of great kindness.
You are loving to everyone *
and your compassion is over all your works.
All your works praise you, O Lord, *
and your faithful servants bless you.
They make known the glory of your dominion *
and speak of your power;
so that the peoples may know of your power *
and the glorious splendour of your dominion.
Your sovereignty is an everlasting one; *
your dominion endures throughout all ages.
Lord, you are faithful in all your words *
and merciful in all your deeds.
You uphold all those who fall *
and lift up those who are bowed down.
The eyes of all wait upon you, O Lord, *
and you give them their food in due season.
You open wide your hand *
and satisfy the needs of every living creature.
You are righteous in all your ways *
and loving in all your works.
You are near to those who call upon you, *
to all who call upon you faithfully.
You fulfil the desire of those who fear you, *
you hear their cry and help them.
You preserve all those who love you, *
but you destroy all the wicked.
My mouth shall speak your praise, O Lord; *
let all flesh bless your holy name for ever and ever.

(At the end of the Psalm(s) one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: Isaiah 11:1-9]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Responsory

(The Responsory is said or sung.)

When you send forth your Spirit, we are created;
you renew the face of the earth.
When you send forth your spirit, we are created;
You renew the face of the earth.
O Creator of all, how manifold are your works;
in wisdom you have made them all.
When you send forth your spirit, we are created;
You renew the face of the earth.

The Reading

(A Reading from the Daily Office Lectionary, the Weekday Eucharistic Lectionary, or the Revised Common Lectionary Daily Readings is read. After a period of silent reflection one of the following is said.)

[Reading: John 4:19-26]

The word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.

or

Hear what the Spirit is saying to the Church.
Thanks be to God.

or

Holy Word, Holy Wisdom.
Thanks be to God.

The Canticle

(“The Song of Mary,” “A Song of God’s Grace,” or “A Song of Redemption” may be said or sung.)

Song of Mary — Luke 1:46–55

My soul proclaims the greatness of the Lord,
my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour, *
for you, Lord, have looked with favour
on your lowly servant.
From this day all generations will call me blessed: *
you, the Almighty, have done great things for me
and holy is your name.
You have mercy on those who fear you, *
from generation to generation.
You have shown strength with your arm *
and scattered the proud in their conceit,
casting down the mighty from their thrones *
and lifting up the lowly.
You have filled the hungry with good things *
and sent the rich away empty.
You have come to the aid of your servant Israel, *
to remember the promise of mercy,
the promise made to our ancestors, *
to Abraham and his children for ever.

or

A Song of God’s Grace — Ephesians 1:3–10

Blessed are you, *
the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,
for you have blessed us in Christ Jesus *
with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places.
You chose us to be yours in Christ
before the foundation of the world, *
that we should be holy and blameless before you.
In love you destined us for adoption as your children,
through Jesus Christ, *
according to the purpose of your will,
to the praise of your glorious grace, *
which you freely bestowed on us in the Beloved.
In you, we have redemption
through the blood of Christ, *
the forgiveness of our sins.
According to the riches of your grace, *
which you have lavished upon us.
You have made known to us, in all wisdom and insight, *
the mystery of your will.
According to your purpose
which you set forth in Christ, *
as a plan for the fullness of time,
to unite all things in Christ, *
things in heaven and things on earth.

or

A Song of Redemption — Colossians 1:13–18a, 19, 20a

Immortal One, you have delivered us from the power of darkness, *
and transferred us to the commonwealth of your Beloved;
in whom we have redemption, *
the forgiveness of our sins.
He is your very image, *
the firstborn of all creation,
in whom all things were created, *
in heaven and on earth, visible and invisible,
through whom and for whom all things were created, *
who is before all things and in whom all things hold together.
Your Beloved is the head of the body, the Church, *
and is the beginning, the firstborn of the dead,
in whom all your fullness was pleased to dwell; *
and through whom you were pleased to reconcile all things.

(At the end of either Canticle one of the following may be said or sung.)

Glory to God, Source of all being, eternal Word, and Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the holy and undivided Trinity, one God:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

or

Glory to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit:
As it was in the beginning, is now, and will be for ever. Amen.

Affirmation of Faith

(One of the following Affirmations of Faith may be said or sung.)

The Apostles’ Creed

I believe in God, the Father almighty,
Creator of heaven and earth.
I believe in Jesus Christ, God’s only Son, our Lord,
Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit,
Born of the Virgin Mary,
Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, died, and was buried;
He descended to the dead.
On the third day he rose again;
He ascended into heaven,
He is seated at the right hand of the Father,
And he will come again to judge the living and the dead.
I believe in the Holy Spirit,
The holy catholic Church,
The communion of saints,
The forgiveness of sins,
The resurrection of the body,
And the life everlasting. Amen.

or

Hear, O Israel

Hear, O Israel,
The Lord our God, the Lord is one.
Love the Lord your God
With all your heart,
With all your soul,
With all your mind,
And with all your strength.
This is the first and the great commandment.
The second is like it:
Love your neighbour as yourself.
There is no commandment greater than these.

The Prayers of the Community

Intercessions and Thanksgivings

The Litany

Let us pray to God the Holy Spirit, saying,
“Come, Holy Spirit, come.”
Come, Holy Spirit, creator:
renew the face of the earth.
Come, Holy Spirit, come.
Come, Holy Spirit, counsellor:
touch our lips so that we may proclaim your word.
Come, Holy Spirit, come.
Come, Holy Spirit, power from on high:
make us agents of peace and ministers of wholeness.
Come, Holy Spirit, come.
Come, Holy Spirit, breath of God:
give life to the dry bones of this exiled age,
and make us a living people, holy and free.
Come, Holy Spirit, come.
Come, Holy Spirit, wisdom and truth:
strengthen us in the risk of faith.
Come, Holy Spirit, come.

The Collect

[Collect of the Day: 2026-05-24]

(Additional intercessions, petitions, and thanksgivings may be offered silently or aloud.)

Risen and ascended Christ, you surround us with witnesses and send us the Counsellor who opens our minds to understand your teaching. Bless us with such grace so that our lives may become a blessing for the world now, and in the age to come. Amen.

(Sunday after Ascension to Pentecost)

God of boundless grace, you call us to drink freely of the well of life and to share the love of your holy being. May the glory of your love, made known in the victory of Jesus Christ, our Saviour, transform our lives and the world he lived and died to save. We ask this in his name and for his sake. Amen.

(Pentecost to Trinity Sunday)

Holy God, you spoke the world into being. Pour your Spirit to the ends of the earth, so that your children may return from exile as citizens of your commonwealth, and our divisions may be healed by your word of love and righteousness. Amen.

(The Week of Trinity Sunday)

God of delight, your Wisdom sings your Word at the crossroads where humanity and divinity meet. Invite us into your joyful being where you know and are known in each beginning, in all sustenance, in every redemption, so that we may manifest your unity in the diverse ministries your entrust to us, truly reflecting your triune majesty in the faith that acts, in the hope that does not disappoint, and in the love that endures. Amen.

The Sending Forth of the Community

The Lord's Prayer

Being made one by the power of the Spirit
and gathering our prayers and praises into one,
let us pray as our Saviour taught us,
Our Father in heaven,
Hallowed be your name,
Your kingdom come,
Your will be done,
On earth as in heaven.
Give us today our daily bread.
Forgive us our sins
As we forgive those who sin against us.
Save us from the time of trial,
And deliver us from evil.
For the kingdom, the power,
And the glory are yours,
Now and for ever. Amen.

The Dismissal

Let us bless the Lord. Alleluia. Alleluia.
Thanks be to God. Alleluia. Alleluia.
May the Spirit kindle in us the fire of God’s love. Amen.
